Department of the Treasury Department of Labor Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
Internal Revenue Service Employee Benefits
Security Administration
Instructions for Form 5500
Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan
Code section references are to the Internal Revenue Code The Form 5500 must be filed electronically as noted above.
unless otherwise noted. ERISA refers to the Employee See Section 3 – Electronic Filing Requirement and the
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. EFAST2 website at www.efast.dol.gov. Your Form 5500
entries will be initially screened electronically. Your entries
EFAST2 Processing System
must satisfy this screening for your filing to be received. Once
received, your form may be subject to further detailed review,
Your 2025 Form 5500 must be electronically filed in the ERISA
and your filing may be rejected based upon this further review.
Filing Acceptance System (EFAST2). For more information,
see the instructions for Electronic Filing Requirement and the ERISA and the Code provide for the assessment or
EFAST2 website at www.efast.dol.gov. You cannot file a paper imposition of penalties for not submitting the required
Form 5500 by mail or other delivery service. information when due. See Penalties.
About the Form 5500 Annual reports filed under Title I of ERISA must be made
available by plan administrators to plan participants and
The Form 5500, Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit beneficiaries and by the DOL to the public under ERISA
Plan, including all required schedules and attachments (Form sections 104 and 106. Under section 504 of the Pension
5500 return/report), is used to report information concerning Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) Pub. L. 109-280, this availability
employee benefit plans and Direct Filing Entities (DFEs). Any for defined benefit pension plans must include the posting of
administrator or sponsor of an employee benefit plan subject to identification and basic plan information and actuarial
ERISA must file information about each benefit plan every year information (Form 5500, Schedule SB or MB, and all of the
(under Code section 6058(a) and ERISA sections 104 and Schedule SB or MB attachments) on any plan sponsor intranet
4065). Some plans participate in certain trusts, accounts, and website (or website maintained by the plan administrator on
other investment arrangements that file a Form 5500 Annual behalf of the plan sponsor) that is used for the purpose of
Return/Report as DFEs. See Who Must File and When To File. communicating with employees and not the public. Section 504
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Department of Labor also requires DOL to display such information on DOL’s
(DOL), and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) website within 90 days after the filing of the plan’s annual
have consolidated certain returns and report forms to reduce return/report. To see plan year 2009 and later Forms 5500,
the filing burden for plan administrators and employers. including actuarial information, see www.dol.gov/ebsa. See
Employers and administrators who comply with the instructions www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/workers-and-families/preparing-
for the Form 5500 generally will satisfy the annual reporting for-retirement/pension-plan-actuarial-information-search-
requirements for the IRS and DOL. instructions for 2008 and short plan year 2009 actuarial
information filed under the previous paper-based system.
Defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans may
have to file additional information with the IRS including Form Changes to Note
5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit
Plan Characteristic Codes. New multiemployer plan
Plans, Form 5310-A, Notice of Plan Merger or Consolidation,
characteristic codes, 1J, 1K, and 1L, have been added to the
Spinoff, or Transfer of Plan Assets or Liabilities; Notice of
Defined Benefit Pension Features section of Form 5500, Part
Qualified Separate Lines of Business, and Form 8955-SSA,
II, line 8a to identify multiemployer defined benefit plans that
Annual Registration Statement Identifying Separated
during the plan year or in a prior plan year, terminated as a
Participants with Deferred Vested Benefits. See www.irs.gov
result of mass withdrawal or plan amendment or became
for more information.
insolvent respectively. A new plan characteristic code, 1G, has
Plans covered by PBGC have special additional
been added to identify defined benefit plans that use a variable
requirements, including premiums and reporting certain
annuity benefit formula. Plan characteristic code 1H (plan
transactions directly with that agency. See PBGC’s website
covered by PBGC that was terminated and closed out for
(www.pbgc.gov/practitioners/) for information on premium
PBGC purposes) has been modified to clarify that it applies
payments and reporting and disclosure.
only to terminated single-employer PBGC-covered plans.
Each Form 5500 must accurately reflect the characteristics
Administrative Penalties. The instructions have been
and operations that applied during the reporting year of the
updated to reflect an increase in the maximum civil penalty
plan or arrangement. The requirements for completing the
amount assessable under ERISA section 502(c)(2), as
Form 5500 vary by the type of plan or arrangement. The
required by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act
section What To File summarizes what information must be
Improvements Act of 2015.
reported for different types of plans and arrangements. The
Quick Reference Chart of Form 5500, Schedules and
Attachments, gives a brief guide to the annual return/report
requirements of the 2025 Form 5500. See also the
“Troubleshooters Guide to Filing the ERISA Annual Reports”
available on www.dol.gov/ebsa, which is intended to help filers
comply with the Form 5500 and Form 5500-SF annual
reporting requirements and avoid common reporting errors.

Table of Contents Page • File the Form 5500-SF or 5500, and any needed schedules
Section 1: Who Must File .................................................. 2 or attachments.
Pension Benefit Plan......................................................... 2 • Check on the status of a filing you submitted.
Welfare Benefit Plan ........................................................ 3 • View filings posted by EFAST2.
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) .................................................. 4 • Register for electronic credentials to sign or submit filings.
Section 2: When To File..................................................... 4 • View forms and related instructions.
Extension of Time To File ................................................ 4 • Get information regarding EFAST2, including approved
Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement ....................... 5 software vendors.
Amended Return/Report................................................... 6 • See answers to frequently asked questions about the Form
Final Return/Report........................................................... 6 5500-SF, the Form 5500 and its schedules, and EFAST2.
Signature and Date ........................................................... 6 • Access the main Employee Benefit Security Administration
Change in Plan Year......................................................... 7 (EBSA) and DOL websites for news, regulations, and
Penalties ............................................................................ 7 publications.
Administrative Penalties ................................................. 7
You can access the IRS website 24 hours a day, 7 days a
Other Penalties ............................................................... 7
week at www.irs.gov to:
Section 4: What To File ..................................................... 7
Form 5500 Schedules....................................................... 8 • View forms, instructions, and publications.
Pension Schedules ...................................................... 8 • See answers to frequently asked tax questions.
General Schedules ....................................................... 8 • Search publications online by topic or keyword.
Pension Benefit Plan Filing Requirements ...................... 9 • Send comments or request help by email.
Limited Pension Plan Reporting................................... 9 • Sign up to receive local and national tax news by email.
Welfare Benefit Plan Filing Requirements..................... 10
You can order other IRS forms and publications at
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) Filing Requirements.............. 10
www.irs.gov/orderforms. You can order EBSA publications by
Master Trust Investment Account (MTIA).................. 10
calling 1-866-444-EBSA (3272).
Common/Collective Trust (CCT) and Pooled
Separate Account (PSA) ............................................ 11
103-12 Investment Entity (103-12 IE) ........................ 11
Section 1: Who Must File
Defined Contribution Group Reporting Arrangements
(DCGs or DCG Reporting Arrangements) ................. 12 A return/report must be filed every year for every pension
Quick Reference Chart of Form 5500, Schedules, and benefit plan, welfare benefit plan, and for every entity that files
Attachments ................................................................ 13 as a DFE as specified below (under Code section 6058(a) and
Section 5: Line-by-Line Instructions for the 2025 ERISA sections 104 and 4065).
Form 5500 and Schedules ........................................... 15 If you are a small plan (generally under 100 participants at
Part I (Form 5500) – Annual Return/Report Identification
the beginning of the plan year), you may be eligible to file the
Information................................................................... 15
Form 5500-SF instead of the Form 5500. For more information,
Part II (Form 5500) – Basic Plan Information ................ 17
see the instructions to the Form 5500-SF.
M-1 Compliance Information .......................................... 20
Pension Benefit Plan
Schedule A – Insurance Information.............................. 23
Schedule C – Service Provider Information .................. 26 All pension benefit plans covered by ERISA must file an annual
Schedule D – DFE/Participating Plan Information ........ 31 return/report except as provided in this section. The return/
Schedule DCG – Individual Plan Information ................ 33 report must be filed whether or not the plan is “tax-qualified,”
Schedule G – Financial Transaction Schedules ........... 41 benefits no longer accrue, contributions were not made this
Schedule H – Financial Information ............................... 43 plan year, or contributions are no longer made. Pension benefit
Schedule I – Financial Information – Small Plan........... 55 plans required to file include both defined benefit plans and
Schedule MB – Multiemployer Defined Benefit Plan and defined contribution plans.
Certain Money Purchase Plan Actuarial
The following are among the pension benefit plans for
Information................................................................... 63
which a return/report must be filed.
Schedule MEP – Multiple-Employer Retirement Plan
1. Profit-sharing plans, stock bonus plans, money purchase
Information................................................................... 71
plans, 401(k) plans, etc.
Schedule R – Retirement Plan Information ................... 73
2. Annuity arrangements under Code section 403(b)(1) and
Schedule SB – Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan
custodial accounts established under Code section 403(b)(7)
Actuarial Information ................................................... 79
for regulated investment company stock. For more information
regarding filing requirements for 403(b) plans subject to Title I
Paperwork Reduction Act Notice .................................. 94
of ERISA, see Field Assistance Bulletins 2009-02 and 2010-
Codes for Principal Business Activity .......................... 95
ERISA Compliance Quick Checklist .............................. 98 01.
Index ................................................................................... 99 3. Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) established by an
employer under Code section 408(c).
4. Church pension plans electing coverage under Code
How To Get Assistance section 410(d).
5. Pension benefit plans that cover residents of Puerto
If you need help completing this form or have related Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, Wake Island, or American
questions, call the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST Samoa. This includes a plan that elects to have the provisions
(1-866-463-3278) (toll-free) or access the EFAST2 or IRS of ERISA section 1022(i)(2) apply.
websites. The EFAST2 Help Desk is available Monday through 6. Plans that satisfy the Actual Deferral Percentage
Friday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm, Eastern Time. requirements of Code section 401(k)(3)(A)(ii) by adopting the
‘‘SIMPLE’’ provisions of Code section 401(k)(11).
You can access the EFAST2 website 24 hours a day, 7
days a week at www.efast.dol.gov to: See What To File for more information about what must be
completed for pension plans.
-2- General Instructions to Form 5500

Do Not File a Form 5500 for a Pension Benefit ERISA section 3(40) must file a Form 5500, unless otherwise
Plan That Is Any of the Following: exempt. Plans required to file a Form M-1, Report for Multiple-
Employer Welfare Arrangements (MEWAs) and Certain
1. An unfunded excess benefit plan. See ERISA section Entities Claiming Exception (ECEs), are not eligible for the
4(b)(5). filing exemption in 29 CFR 2520.104-20 described below. Such
2. An annuity or custodial account arrangement under Code plans are required to file the Form 5500 regardless of the plan
sections 403(b)(1) or (7) not established or maintained by an
size or type of funding.
employer as described in DOL Regulation 29 CFR 2510.3-2(f).
Do Not File a Form 5500 for a Welfare Benefit
3. A Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees of Small
Employers (SIMPLE) that involves SIMPLE IRAs under Code Plan That Is Any of the Following:
section 408(p).
1. A welfare benefit plan that covered fewer than 100
4. A simplified employee pension (SEP) or a salary
participants as of the beginning of the plan year and is
reduction SEP described in Code section 408(k) that conforms
unfunded, fully insured, or a combination of insured and
to the alternative method of compliance in 29 CFR 2520.104-
unfunded, and which is not subject to the Form M-1
48 or 2520.104-49. A SEP is a pension plan that meets certain
requirements under 29 CFR 2520.101-2, as specified in 29
minimum qualifications regarding eligibility and employer
CFR 2520.104-20.
contributions.
Note. To determine whether the plan covers fewer than 100
5. A church pension benefit plan not electing coverage
participants for purposes of these filing exemptions for insured
under Code section 410(d).
and unfunded welfare plans, see instructions for lines 5 and 6
6. A pension plan that is maintained outside the United
on counting participants in a welfare plan. See also 29 CFR
States primarily for the benefit of persons substantially all of
2510.3-3(d).
whom are nonresident aliens. However, certain foreign plans
a. An unfunded welfare benefit plan has its benefits paid as
are required to file the Form 5500-EZ, Annual Return of A
needed directly from the general assets of the employer or
One-Participant (Owners/Partners and Their Spouses)
employee organization that sponsors the plan.
Retirement Plan or A Foreign Plan. For more information on
filing Form 5500-EZ for a foreign plan, including directions that Note. Plans that are NOT unfunded include those plans that
specify when a filer must file Form 5500-EZ electronically with received employee (or former employee) contributions during
EFAST2 and when they may file on paper, see the Instructions the plan year and/or used a trust or separately maintained fund
for Form 5500-EZ, or go to www.irs.gov. (including a Code section 501(c)(9) trust) to hold plan assets or
7. An unfunded pension plan for a select group of act as a conduit for the transfer of plan assets during the year.
management or highly compensated employees that meets the A welfare benefit plan with employee contributions that is
requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-23, including timely filing of associated with a cafeteria plan under Code section 125 may
a registration statement with the DOL. be treated for annual reporting purposes as an unfunded
8. An unfunded dues financed pension benefit plan that welfare plan if it meets the requirements of DOL Technical
meets the alternative method of compliance provided by 29 Release 92-01, 57 Fed. Reg. 23272 (June 2, 1992) and 58
CFR 2520.104-27. Fed. Reg. 45359 (Aug. 27, 1993). The mere receipt of COBRA
9. An individual retirement account or annuity not contributions or other after-tax participant contributions (e.g.,
considered a pension plan under 29 CFR 2510.3-2(d). retiree contributions) by a cafeteria plan would not by itself
10. A governmental plan. affect the availability of the relief provided for cafeteria plans
11. A “one-participant plan.” For this purpose, a “one- that otherwise meet the requirements of DOL Technical
participant plan” is defined as: Release 92-01. See 61 Fed. Reg. 41220, 41222-23 (Aug. 7,
a. a pension benefit plan that covers only an individual or 1996).
an individual and their spouse who wholly own a trade or b. A fully insured welfare benefit plan has its benefits
business, whether incorporated or unincorporated; or provided exclusively through insurance contracts or policies,
b. a pension benefit plan for a partnership that covers only the premiums of which must be paid directly to the insurance
the partners or the partners and the partners’ spouses (treating carrier by the employer or employee organization from its
2% shareholder of an S corporation, as defined in Code general assets or partly from its general assets and partly from
section 1372(b), as a partner). contributions by its employees or members (which the
However, certain one-participant plans are required to file the employer or employee organization forwards within three (3)
Form 5500-EZ, Annual Return of A One-Participant months of receipt). The insurance contracts or policies
(Owners/Partners and Their Spouses) Retirement Plan or A discussed above must be issued by an insurance company or
Foreign Plan. For more information on filing Form 5500-EZ for similar organization (such as Blue Cross Blue Shield or a
such a “one-participant plan”, including directions that specify health maintenance organization) that is qualified to do
when a filer must file Form 5500-EZ electronically with business in any state.
EFAST2 and when they may file on paper, see the Instructions c. A combination unfunded/insured welfare benefit plan has
for Form 5500-EZ, or go to www.irs.gov/ep. its benefits provided partially as an unfunded plan and partially
as a fully insured plan. An example of such a plan is a welfare
See the instructions to the Form 5500-EZ for eligibility
benefit plan that provides medical benefits as in a above and
conditions and filing requirements. For more information, go to
life insurance benefits as in b above. See 29 CFR 2520.104-
www.irs.gov/ep.
20.
Welfare Benefit Plan 2. A welfare benefit plan maintained outside the United
All welfare benefit plans covered by ERISA are required to file States primarily for persons substantially all of whom are
a Form 5500 except as provided in this section. Welfare benefit nonresident aliens.
plans provide benefits such as medical, dental, life insurance, 3. A governmental plan.
apprenticeship and training, scholarship funds, severance pay, 4. An unfunded or insured welfare benefit plan maintained
disability, etc. See What To File for more information. for a select group of management or highly compensated
employees, which meets the requirements of 29 CFR
Reminder: The administrator of an employee welfare benefit
2520.104-24.
plan that provides benefits wholly or partially through a
Multiple-Employer Welfare Arrangement (MEWA) as defined in
General Instructions to Form 5500 -3-

5. An employee benefit plan maintained only to comply with Report to determine if “the final return/report” box in line B
workers’ compensation, unemployment compensation, or should be checked.
disability insurance laws.
Notes. (1) If the filing due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
6. A welfare benefit plan that participates in a group
Federal holiday, the return/report may be filed on the next day
insurance arrangement that files a Form 5500 on behalf of the
that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. (2) If the
welfare benefit plan as specified in 29 CFR 2520.103-2. See
2026 Form 5500 is not available before the plan or DFE filing is
29 CFR 2520.104-43.
due, use the 2025 Form 5500 and enter the 2026 fiscal year
7. An apprenticeship or training plan meeting all of the beginning and ending dates on the line provided at the top of
conditions specified in 29 CFR 2520.104-22. the form.
8. An unfunded dues financed welfare benefit plan
Extension of Time To File Using Form 5558
exempted by 29 CFR 2520.104-26.
9. A church plan under ERISA section 3(33). A plan, GIA, or DCG may obtain a one-time extension of time
10. A welfare benefit plan maintained solely for (1) an to file a Form 5500 Annual Return/Report (up to 2½ months)
individual or an individual and their spouse, who wholly own a by filing IRS Form 5558, Application for Extension of Time To
trade or business, whether incorporated or unincorporated, or File Certain Employee Plan Returns, on or before the normal
(2) partners or the partners and the partners’ spouses in a due date (not including any extensions) of the return/report. A
partnership. See 29 CFR 2510.3-3(b). copy of the completed extension request must be retained with
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) the filer’s records. Please see Instructions for Form 5558 for
more information on how and where to file.
Some plans participate in certain trusts, accounts, and other
Note. The plan administrator of a DCG reporting arrangement
investment or reporting arrangements that file the Form 5500
can file a single Form 5558 for an extension of time to file a
Annual Return/Report as a DFE in accordance with the Direct
Form 5500 Annual Return/Report. The individual plans
Filing Entity (DFE) Filing Requirements. A Form 5500 must be
participating in a DCG reporting arrangement are covered by
filed for a master trust investment account (MTIA). A Form
the single Form 5558 submitted by the DCG. The plan
5500 is not required but may be filed for a common/collective
administrator is not required to attach a list of participating
trust (CCT), pooled separate account (PSA), 103-12
plans in the DCG to the Form 5558.
investment entity (103-12 IE), defined contribution group
reporting arrangement (DCG or DCG reporting arrangement), Using Extension of Time To File Federal Income Tax
or group insurance arrangement (GIA). Plans that participate in Return
CCTs, PSAs, 103-12 IEs, DCGs, or GIAs that file as DFEs,
An automatic extension of time to file the Form 5500 Annual
however, generally are eligible for certain annual reporting
Return/Report until the due date of the federal income tax
relief. For reporting purposes, a CCT, PSA, 103-12 IE, DCG, or
return of the employer will be granted if all of the following
GIA is not considered a DFE unless a Form 5500 and all
conditions are met: (1) the plan year and the employer’s tax
required attachments are filed for it in accordance with the
year are the same; (2) the employer has been granted an
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) Filing Requirements.
extension of time to file its federal income tax return to a date
Note. Special requirements also apply to Schedules D and H later than the normal due date for filing the Form 5500; and (3)
attached to the Form 5500 filed by plans participating in a copy of the application for extension of time to file the federal
MTIAs, CCTs, PSAs, DCGs, and 103-12 IEs. See these income tax return is maintained with the filer’s records. An
schedules and their instructions. extension granted by using this automatic extension procedure
CANNOT be extended further by filing a Form 5558, nor can it
be extended beyond a total of 9½ months beyond the close of
Section 2: When To File the plan year.
Plans, DCGs and GIAs. File 2025 returns/reports for plan, Note. A tax-exempt organization is not required to file a federal
DCG and GIA years that began in 2025. All required forms, income tax return. However, if the organization uses a Form
schedules, statements, and attachments must be filed by the 8868 to request an extension for its Form 990 series return, the
filer is automatically granted an extension of time to file the
last day of the 7th calendar month after the end of the plan,
Form 5500 until the extended due date of filing Form 990
DCG or GIA year (not to exceed 12 months in length) that
series if all conditions listed above are met. An extension
began in 2025. If the plan, DCG or GIA year differs from the
2025 calendar year, fill in the fiscal year beginning and ending granted by using this automatic extension procedure cannot be
dates in the space provided. extended beyond a total of 9½ months beyond the close of the
plan year.
DFEs other than DCGs and GIAs. File 2025 returns/reports
no later than 9½ months after the end of the DFE year that Note. An extension of time to file the Form 5500 does not
ended in 2025. A Form 5500 filed for a DFE (other than DCGs operate as an extension of time to file a Form 5500 filed for a
and GIAs) must report information for the DFE year (not to DFE (other than a DCG or GIA), to file PBGC premiums or
exceed 12 months in length). If the DFE year differs from the annual financial and actuarial reports (if required by ERISA
2025 calendar year, fill in the fiscal year beginning and ending section 4010) or to file the Form 8955-SSA (Annual
dates in the space provided. Registration Statement Identifying Separated Participants with
Deferred Vested Benefits) (required to be filed with the IRS
Short Years. For a plan year of less than 12 months (short
under Code section 6057(a)).
plan year), file the form and applicable schedules by the last
day of the 7th calendar month after the short plan year ends or Other Extensions of Time
by the extended due date, if filing under an authorized
The IRS, DOL, and PBGC may announce special extensions
extension of time. Fill in the short plan year beginning and
of time under certain circumstances, such as extensions for
ending dates in the space provided and check the appropriate
Presidentially-declared disasters or for service in, or in support
box in Part I, line B, of the Form 5500. For purposes of this
of, the Armed Forces of the United States in a combat zone.
return/report, the short plan year ends on the date of the
See www.irs.gov, www.efast.dol.gov, and
change in accounting period or upon the complete distribution
www.pbgc.gov/practitioners for announcements regarding such
of assets of the plan. Also see the instructions for Final Return/
special extensions. If you are relying on one of these
-4- General Instructions to Form 5500

announced special extensions, check the appropriate box on report unless all entries are in the proper format. To reduce the
Form 5500, Part I, line D, and enter a description of the possibility of correspondence and penalties:
announced authority for the extension.
• Complete all lines on the Form 5500 unless otherwise
Delinquent Filer Voluntary Compliance (DFVC) specified. Also complete and electronically attach, as required,
Program applicable schedules and attachments.
• Do not enter “N/A” or “Not Applicable” on the Form 5500
The DFVC Program facilitates voluntary compliance by plan
unless specifically permitted. “Yes” or “No” questions on the
administrators who are delinquent in filing annual reports under
forms and schedules cannot be left blank, unless specifically
Title I of ERISA by permitting administrators to pay reduced
permitted. Answer either “Yes” or “No,” but not both.
civil penalties for voluntarily complying with their DOL annual
reporting obligations. If the Form 5500 is being filed under the All schedules and attachments to the Form 5500 must be
DFVC Program, check the appropriate box in Form 5500, Part properly identified, and must include the name of the plan or
I, line D, to indicate that the Form 5500 is being filed under the DFE, EIN, and plan number (PN) as found on the Form 5500,
DFVC Program. See www.efast.dol.gov for additional lines, 1a, 2b, and 1b, respectively. At the top of each
information. attachment, indicate the schedule and line, if any (e.g.,
Schedule H, line 4i) to which the attachment relates.
Plan administrators are reminded that they can use the
online calculator available at Check your return/report for errors before signing or
www.askebsa.dol.gov/dfvcepay/calculator to compute the submitting it to EFAST2. Your filing software or, if you are
penalties due under the program. Payments under the DFVC using it, the EFAST2 web-based filing system will allow you to
Program also may be submitted electronically. For information check your return/report for errors. If, after reasonable attempts
on how to pay DFVC Program payments online, go to to correct your filing to eliminate any identified problem or
www.dol.gov/ebsa. problems, you are unable to address them, or you believe that
you are receiving the message in error, call the EFAST2 Help
Filers who wish to participate in the DFVC Program for
Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278) or contact the
plan years prior to 2023 must use the 2025 version of
service provider you used to help prepare and file your annual
Form 5500 or, if applicable, Form 5500-SF. Use the Form 5500
return/report.
Version Selection Tool available at www.efast.dol.gov for
further information. Once you complete the return/report and finish the
electronic signature process, you can electronically submit it to
EFAST2. When you electronically submit your return/report,
Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement EFAST2 is designed to immediately notify you if your
submission was received and whether the return/report is
Your 2025 Form 5500 must be electronically filed in the ERISA
ready to be processed by EFAST2. If EFAST2 does not notify
Filing Acceptance System (EFAST2). You may file online using
you that your submission was successfully received and is
EFAST2’s web-based filing system or you may file through an
ready to be processed, you will need to take steps to correct
EFAST2-approved vendor. Detailed information on electronic
the problem or you may be deemed a non-filer subject to
filing is available at www.efast.dol.gov. For telephone
penalties from DOL, IRS, and/or PBGC.
assistance, call the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST
Once EFAST2 receives your return/report, the EFAST2
(1-866-463-3278). The EFAST2 Help Desk is available
system should be able to provide a filing status within 20
Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm, Eastern
minutes. The person submitting the filing should check back
Time.
into the EFAST2 system to determine the filing status of your
Annual returns/reports filed under Title I of ERISA must return/report. The filing status message will include a list of any
be made available by plan administrators to plan filing errors or warnings that EFAST2 may have identified in
participants and beneficiaries and by the DOL to the public your filing. If EFAST2 did not identify any filing errors or
under ERISA sections 104 and 106. Even though the Form
warnings, EFAST2 will show the filing status of your return/
5500 must be filed electronically, the administrator must keep a
report as “Filing Received.” Persons other than the submitter
copy of the Form 5500, including schedules and attachments,
can check whether the filing was received by the system by
with all required signatures on file as part of the plan’s records
calling the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST (1-866-
and must make a paper copy available upon request to
463-3278) and using the automated telephone system.
participants, beneficiaries, and the DOL as required by ERISA
To reduce the possibility of correspondence and penalties
section 104 and 29 CFR 2520.103-1. Filers may use electronic
from the DOL, IRS, and/or PBGC, you should do the following:
media for record maintenance and retention, so long as they
(1) Before submitting your return/report to EFAST2, check it for
meet the applicable requirements. (See 29 CFR 2520.107-1).
errors, and (2) after you have submitted it to EFAST2, verify
Note. Effective for plan years beginning after 2019, a one- that you have received a filing status of “Filing Received” and
participant plan or a foreign plan can file Form 5500-EZ attempt to correct and resolve any errors or warnings listed in
electronically using the EFAST2 filing system. Information filed the status report.
on Form 5500-EZ using EFAST2 is required to be made
Note. Even after being received by the EFAST2 system, your
available to the public. However, information filed with EFAST2
return/report filing may be subject to further detailed review by
using Form 5500-EZ will not be published on the internet.
DOL, IRS, and/or PBGC, and your filing may be deemed
Generally, questions on the Form 5500 relate to the plan
deficient based upon this further review. See Penalties on
year entered at the top of the first page of the form. Therefore,
Page 7.
answer all questions on the 2025 Form 5500 with respect to
Do not enter social security numbers in response to
the 2025 plan year unless otherwise explicitly stated in the
questions asking for an employer identification number
instructions or on the form itself.
(EIN). Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a social
Your entries must be in the proper format in order for the
security number or any portion thereof on the Form 5500 or on
EFAST2 system to process your filing. For example, if a
a schedule or attachment that is open to public inspection may
question requires you to enter a dollar amount, you cannot
result in the rejection of the filing. If you discover a filing
enter a word. Your software will not let you submit your return/
disclosed on the EFAST2 website that contains a social
General Instructions to Form 5500 -5-

security number, immediately call the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1- Examples:
866-GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278).
Mergers/Consolidations
Employers without an EIN must apply for one as soon as
A final return/report should be filed for the plan year (12
possible. The EBSA does not issue EINs. To apply for an EIN
months or less) that ends when all plan assets were legally
from the IRS:
transferred to the control of another plan.
• Mail or fax Form SS-4, Application for Employer Identification
Number, obtained at www.irs.gov/orderforms. Pension and Welfare Plans That Terminated Without
• See www.IRS.gov/Businesses and click on “Employer ID Distributing All Assets
Numbers” for additional information. The EIN is issued If the plan was terminated, but all plan assets were not
immediately once the application information is validated. (The distributed, a return/report must be filed for each year the plan
online application process is not yet available for corporations has assets. The return/report must be filed by the plan
with addresses in foreign countries or Puerto Rico.) administrator, if designated, or by the person or persons who
Do not attach a copy of the annual registration actually control the plan’s assets/property.
statement (IRS Form 8955-SSA) identifying separated Welfare Plans Still Liable To Pay Benefits
participants with deferred vested benefits, or a previous year’s
A welfare plan cannot file a final return/report if the plan is still
Schedule SSA (Form 5500) to your 2025 Form 5500 Annual
liable to pay benefits for claims that were incurred prior to the
Return/Report. The annual registration statement must be filed
termination date, but not yet paid. See 29 CFR 2520.104b-
directly with the IRS and cannot be attached to a Form 5500
2(g)(2)(ii).
submission with EFAST2.
Signature and Date
Amended Return/Report
For purposes of Title I of ERISA, the plan administrator is
File an amended return/report to correct errors and/or
required to file the Form 5500. If the plan administrator does
omissions in a previously filed annual return/report for the 2025
not sign a filing, the filing status will indicate that there is an
plan year. The amended Form 5500 and any amended
error with your filing, and your filing will be subject to further
schedules and/or attachments must conform to the
review, correspondence, rejection, and civil penalties.
requirements in these instructions. See the DOL website at
The plan administrator must electronically sign the Form 5500
www.efast.dol.gov for information on filing amended returns/
or 5500-SF submitted to EFAST2.
reports for prior years.
After submitting your filing, you must check the Filing
Note. An amended filing must be submitted as a complete
Status. If the filing status is "Processing Stopped" or
replacement of the previously submitted filing. You will need to
“Unprocessable”, it is possible your submission was not sent
resubmit the entire form, with all required schedules and
with a valid electronic signature as required, and depending on
attachments, through EFAST2. You cannot submit just the parts
the error, may be considered not to have been filed. By looking
of the filing that are being amended. See EFAST2 FAQs
closer at the Filing Status, you can see specific error
available on the EFAST website at www.efast.dol.gov.
messages applicable to the transmitted filing and determine
If a plan participating in a DCG amended its Schedule DCG
whether it was sent with a valid electronic signature and what
to correct errors and /or omissions in a previously filed Schedule
other errors may need to be corrected.
DCG, the DCG must resubmit an amended filing as described
Note. If the plan administrator is an entity, the electronic
above, with all required schedules and attachments, including
signature must be in the name of a person authorized to sign
Schedules DCG for all participating plans that were submitted
on behalf of the plan administrator.
with the original return. The line F box for “an amended
Schedule DCG” on the Schedule DCG must be checked only for Authorized Service Provider Signatures. A statement for
those Schedules DCG that have been changed from the original service providers that use this electronic signature option is in
submission. the IFILE application. The statement provides that, by signing
the electronic filing, the service provider is attesting: (1) that
Check the line B box for “an amended return/report” if you
the service provider has been authorized in writing by the plan
filed a previous 2025 annual return/report that was given a
administrator, plan sponsor/employer, or DFE, as applicable, to
“Filing_Received,” “Filing_Error,” or “Filing_Stopped” status by
electronically submit the return/report; (2) that a copy of the
EFAST2. Do not check the line B box for “an amended
specific written authorization will be kept in the service
return/report” if your previous submission attempts were not
provider’s records; (3) that, in addition to any other required
successfully received by EFAST2 because of problems with the
schedules or attachments, the electronic filing includes a true
transmission of your return/report. For more information, go to
and correct PDF copy of the completed Form 5500 (without
the EFAST2 website at www.efast.dol.gov or call the EFAST2
schedules or attachments) bearing the manual signature of the
Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278).
plan administrator, employer/plan sponsor, or DFE, as
Final Return/Report applicable, under penalty of perjury; (4) that the service
provider advised the plan administrator, employer/plan
If all assets under the plan (including insurance/annuity
sponsor, or DFE, as applicable, that by selecting this electronic
contracts) have been distributed to the participants and
signature option, the image of the plan administrator’s,
beneficiaries or legally transferred to the control of another
employer/plan sponsor’s, or DFE’s manual signature will be
plan, and when all liabilities for which benefits may be paid
included with the rest of the return/report posted by the
under a welfare benefit plan have been satisfied, check the
Department of Labor on the Internet for public disclosure; and
final return/report box in Part I, line B at the top of the Form
(5) that the service provider will communicate to the plan
5500. Do not mark the final return/report box if you are
administrator, employer/plan sponsor, or DFE, as applicable,
reporting participants and/or assets at the end of the plan year.
any inquiries and information received from EFAST2, DOL,
If a trustee is appointed for a terminated defined benefit plan
IRS or PBGC regarding the return/report.
under ERISA section 4042, the last plan year for which a
return/report must be filed is the year in which the trustee is Note. The Code permits either the plan sponsor/employer or
appointed. If you are in this situation you may contact the administrator to sign the filing. However, any Form 5500
PBGCTrusteedPlan@dol.gov for further information. that is not electronically signed by the plan administrator will be
-6- General Instructions to Form 5500

subject to rejection and civil penalties under Title I of ERISA. Adjustment Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. No. 114-74;
129 Stat. 599), requires the penalty amount to be adjusted
For DFE filings, a person authorized to sign on behalf of the
annually after the Form 5500 and its schedules, attachments,
DFE must sign for the DFE.
and instructions are published for filing, be sure to check
The Form 5500 Annual Return/Report must be filed
DOL’s website for any possible required inflation adjustments
electronically and signed. To obtain an electronic signature, go
of the maximum penalty amount that may have been published
to www.efast.dol.gov and register in EFAST2 as a signer. You
in the Federal Register after the instructions have been posted.
will be provided with a UserID and PIN. Both the UserID and
2. A penalty of $250 a day (up to $150,000) for not filing
PIN are needed to sign the Form 5500. The plan administrator
returns for certain plans of deferred compensation, trusts and
must keep a copy of the Form 5500, including schedules and
annuities, and bond purchase plans by the due date(s). See
attachments with all required signatures on file as part of the
Code section 6652(e).
plan’s records. See 29 CFR 2520.103-1.
3. A penalty of $1,000 for each failure to file an actuarial
Electronic signatures on annual returns/reports filed under statement (Schedule MB (Form 5500) or Schedule SB (Form
EFAST2 are governed by the applicable statutory and 5500)) required by the applicable instructions. See Code
regulatory requirements. section 6692.
Change in Plan Year Other Penalties
1. Any individual who willfully violates any provision of Part
Generally, only defined benefit pension plans need to get
1 of Title I of ERISA shall on conviction be fined not more than
approval for a change in the plan year. See Code section
$100,000 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both. See
412(d)(1). However, under Revenue Procedure 87-27, 1987-1
ERISA section 501.
C.B. 769, these pension plans may be eligible for automatic
2. A penalty up to $10,000, five (5) years imprisonment, or
approval of a change in plan year.
both, may be imposed for making any false statement or
If a change in plan year for a pension or welfare benefit plan representation of fact, knowing it to be false, or for knowingly
creates a short plan year, file the form and applicable concealing or not disclosing any fact required by ERISA. See
schedules by the last day of the 7th calendar month after the section 1027, Title 18, U.S. Code, as amended by ERISA
short plan year ends or by the extended due date, if filing section 111.
under an authorized extension of time. Fill in the short plan
year beginning and ending dates in the space provided in Part
I and check the appropriate box in Part I, line B of the Form
Section 4: What To File
5500. For purposes of this return/report, the short plan year
ends on the date of the change in accounting period or upon The Form 5500 reporting requirements vary depending on
the complete distribution of assets of the plan. Also, see the whether the Form 5500 is being filed for a ‘‘large plan,’’ a
instructions for the Final Return/Report to determine if “final ‘‘small plan,’’ and/or a DFE, and on the particular type of plan
return/report” in line B should be checked. or DFE involved (e.g., welfare plan, pension plan,
common/collective trust (CCT), pooled separate account
Penalties
(PSA), master trust investment account (MTIA), 103-12 IE,
Plan administrators and plan sponsors must provide complete defined contribution group reporting arrangement (DCG or
and accurate information and must otherwise comply fully with DCG reporting arrangement) or group insurance arrangement
the filing requirements. ERISA and the Code provide for the (GIA)).
DOL and the IRS, respectively, to assess or impose penalties The instructions below provide detailed information about
for not giving complete and accurate information and for not each of the Form 5500 schedules and which plans and DFEs
filing complete and accurate statements and returns/reports. are required to file them.
Certain penalties are administrative (i.e., they may be imposed
The schedules are grouped in the instructions by type:
or assessed by one of the governmental agencies delegated to
(1) Pension Benefit Schedules and (2) General Schedules.
administer the collection of the annual return/report data).
Each schedule is listed separately with a description of the
Others require a legal conviction.
subject matter covered by the schedule and the plans and
Administrative Penalties DFEs that are required to file the schedule.
Listed below are various penalties under ERISA and the Code Filing requirements also are listed by type of filer:
that may be assessed or imposed for not meeting the annual (1) Pension Benefit Plan Filing Requirements; (2) Welfare
return/report filing requirements. Generally, whether the Benefit Plan Filing Requirements; and (3) DFE Filing
penalty is under ERISA or the Code, or both, depends upon Requirements (including DCG reporting arrangements). For
the agency for which the information is required to be filed. each filer type there is a separate list of the schedules that
One or more of the following administrative penalties may be must be filed with the Form 5500 (including where applicable,
assessed or imposed in the event of incomplete filings or filings separate lists for large plan filers, small plan filers, and different
received after the due date unless it is determined that your types of DFEs).
failure to file properly is for reasonable cause:
The filing requirements also are summarized in a “Quick
1. A penalty of up to $2,739 a day for each day a plan Reference Chart of Form 5500, Schedules, and Attachments.”
administrator fails or refuses to file a complete and accurate
Generally, a return/report filed for a pension benefit plan or
report. See ERISA section 502(c)(2), 29 CFR 2560.502c-2,
welfare benefit plan that covered fewer than 100 participants
and the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of
as of the beginning of the plan year should be completed
1990, as amended by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation
following the requirements below for a “small plan,” and a
Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (2015 Inflation
return/report filed for a plan that covered 100 or more
Adjustment Act). Pub. L. No. 114-74; 129 Stat. 599 and the
participants as of the beginning of the plan year should be
DOL’s implementing regulation at 90 Fed. Reg. 1854 (Jan. 10,
completed following the requirements below for a “large plan.”
2025). The 2015 Inflation Adjustment Act requires agencies to
A plan other than a defined contribution pension plan uses
adjust the levels of civil monetary penalties with an initial catch-
the number of participants required to be entered in line 5 of
up adjustment, followed by annual adjustments for
the Form 5500 to determine whether a plan is a “small plan” or
inflation. Because the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation
General Instructions to Form 5500 -7-

“large plan.” A defined contribution pension plan uses the General Schedules
number required to be entered on line 6g(1), except that a
Schedule H (Financial Information) – is required for pension
defined contribution pension plan that checks the “first
benefit plans and welfare benefit plans filing as “large plans”
return/report” box on Part I, line B uses the number entered on
and for all DFE filings. Employee benefit plans, 103-12 IEs,
line 6g(2).
and GIAs filing the Schedule H are generally required to
Exceptions: engage an independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) and
(1) 80-120 Participant Rule: If the number of participants is attach a report of the IQPA under ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A).
between 80 and 120, and a Form 5500 Annual Return/Report In the case of a DCG reporting arrangement, the IQPA
was filed for the prior plan year, you may elect to complete the requirements are determined at the participating plan level for
return/report in the same category (‘‘large plan’’ or ‘‘small each plan participating in the DCG. Plans and DFEs filing the
plan’’) as was filed for the prior return/report. Thus, if a Form Schedule H, including the DCG filer that reports financial
5500-SF or a Form 5500 Annual Return/Report was filed for information on an aggregated basis on behalf of all
the 2024 plan year as a small plan, including the Schedule I if participating plans, are also generally required to attach to the
applicable, and the participant count for the 2025 plan year is Form 5500 a “Schedule of Assets (Held At End of Year),”
120 or less, you may elect to complete the 2025 Form 5500 and, if applicable, a “Schedule of Assets (Acquired and
and schedules in accordance with the instructions for a small Disposed of Within Year),” a “Schedule of Reportable
plan, including for eligible filers, filing the Form 5500-SF Transactions,” and a “Schedule of Delinquent Participant
instead of the Form 5500. Contributions.” For additional information, see the Schedule
(2) Short Plan Year Rule: If the plan had a short plan year H instructions.
of seven (7) months or less for either the prior plan year or the Exceptions: Insured, unfunded, or combination
plan year being reported on the 2025 Form 5500, an election unfunded/insured welfare plans, as described in 29 CFR
can be made to defer filing the accountant’s report in 2520.104-44(b)(1) and certain pension plans and
accordance with 29 CFR 2520.104-50. If such an election was arrangements, as described in 29 CFR 2520.104-44(b)(2) and
made for the prior plan year, the 2025 Form 5500 must be in Limited Pension Plan Reporting, are exempt from
completed following the requirements for a large plan, completing the Schedule H.
including the attachment of the Schedule H and the
Schedule I (Financial Information - Small Plan) – is
accountant’s reports, regardless of the number of participants.
required for all pension benefit plans and welfare benefit plans
(3) DCG Reporting Arrangements: Defined contribution
filing the Form 5500 Annual Return/Report, rather than the
pension plans included as participating plans in a DCG
Form 5500-SF, as ‘‘small plans.’’ Regardless of size, all DFEs
reporting arrangement each count participants at the individual
(including DCGs) and certain pension benefit plans and
plan level to determine whether the plan may be eligible for the
arrangements described in 29 CFR 2520.104-44(b)(2) and in
waiver of the annual examination and report of an independent
Limited Pension Plan Reporting, file Schedule H not Schedule
qualified public accountant (IQPA) for small plans on the
I. For additional information, see the Schedule I and Schedule
Schedule DCG. For additional information, see the Schedule
H instructions.
DCG instructions.
Note. A welfare plan that would have been eligible for the filing
Form 5500 Schedules exemption under 29 CFR 2520.104-20, but for the fact that it is
required to file a Form M-1, is exempt from completing a
Pension Schedules
Schedule I if it meets the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-
Schedule R (Retirement Plan Information) – is required for a 44(b)(1).
pension benefit plan that is a defined benefit plan or is
Schedule A (Insurance Information) – is required if any
otherwise subject to Code section 412 or ERISA section 302.
benefits under an employee benefit plan are provided by an
Schedule R may also be required for certain other pension
insurance company, insurance service or other similar
benefit plans unless otherwise specified under limited Pension
organization (such as Blue Cross Blue Shield, or a health
Plan Reporting. For additional information, see the Schedule R
maintenance organization). This includes investment contracts
instructions.
with insurance companies, such as guaranteed investment
Schedule MB (Multiemployer Defined Benefit Plan and contracts and pooled separate accounts. For additional
Certain Money Purchase Plan Actuarial Information) – is information, see the Schedule A instructions.
required for most multiemployer defined benefit plans and for
Note. Do not file Schedule A for Administrative Services Only
defined contribution pension plans that currently amortize a
(ASO) contracts. Do not file Schedule A if a Schedule A is filed
waiver of the minimum funding requirements specified in the
for the contract as part of the Form 5500 filed directly by a
instructions for the Schedule MB. For additional information,
master trust investment account (MTIA) or 103-12 IE.
see the instructions for the Schedule MB and the Schedule R.
Schedule C (Service Provider Information) – is required for
Schedule SB (Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan
a large plan, MTIA, 103-12 IE, DCG or GIA if (1) any service
Actuarial Information) – is required for most single-employer
provider who rendered services to the plan or DFE during the
defined benefit plans, including multiple-employer defined
plan or DFE year received $5,000 or more in compensation,
benefit pension plans. For additional information, see the
directly or indirectly from the plan or DFE, or (2) an accountant
instructions for the Schedule SB.
and/or enrolled actuary has been terminated. For additional
Schedule MEP (Multiple-Employer Retirement Plan information, see the Schedule C instructions.
Information) – is required for multiple-employer pension plans.
Schedule D (DFE/Participating Plan Information) – Part I is
For additional information, see the instructions for the
required for a plan or DFE that invested or participated in any
Schedule MEP.
MTIAs, 103-12 IEs, CCTs, and/or PSAs. Part II is required
Schedule DCG (Individual Plan Information) – is required for when the Form 5500 is filed for a DFE, except DCGs. For
DCGs. Each plan participating in a DCG must individually additional information, see the Schedule D instructions.
complete a Schedule DCG. For additional information, see the
Schedule G (Financial Transaction Schedules) – is required
instructions for the Schedule DCG.
for a large plan, MTIA, 103-12 IE, DCG or GIA when Schedule
H (Financial Information) lines 4b, 4c, and/or 4d are checked
-8- General Instructions to Form 5500

‘‘Yes.’’ Part I of the Schedule G reports loans or fixed income Eligible Combined Plans
obligations in default or classified as uncollectible. Part II of the
PPA section 903 established rules for a new type of pension
Schedule G reports leases in default or classified as
plan, an “eligible combined plan,” effective for plan years
uncollectible. Part III of the Schedule G reports nonexempt
beginning after December 31, 2009. See Code section 414(x)
transactions. For additional information, see the Schedule G
and ERISA section 210(e). An eligible combined plan consists
instructions.
of a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan that
An unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/ includes a qualified cash or deferred arrangement under Code
insured welfare plan with 100 or more participants section 401(k), with the assets of the two plans held in a single
exempt under 29 CFR 2520.104-44 from completing Schedule trust, but clearly identified and allocated between the plans.
H must still complete Schedule G, Part III, to report nonexempt The eligible combined plan design is available only to
transactions. employers that employed an average of at least two, but not
Pension Benefit Plan Filing more than 500 employees, on business days during the
calendar year preceding the plan year as of which the eligible
Requirements combined plan is established and that employs at least two
Pension benefit plan filers must complete the Form 5500 employees on the first day of the plan year that the plan is
Annual Return/Report, including the signature block and, established. Because an eligible combined plan includes both
unless otherwise specified, attach the following schedules and a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan, the
information: Form 5500 filed for the plan must include all the information,
schedules, and attachments that would be required for either a
Small Pension Plan
defined benefit plan (such as a Schedule SB) or a defined
The following schedules (including any additional information contribution plan.
required by the instructions to the schedules) must be attached Limited Pension Plan Reporting
to a Form 5500 filed for a small pension plan that is neither
exempt from filing nor is filing the Form 5500-SF: The pension benefit plans or arrangements described below
1. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance, are eligible for limited annual reporting:
annuity, and investment contracts held by the plan. 1. IRA Plans: A pension plan using individual retirement
2. Schedule D, Part I, to list any CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and accounts or annuities (as described in Code section 408) as
103-12 IEs in which the plan participated at any time during the the sole funding vehicle for providing pension benefits need
plan year. complete only Form 5500, Part I and Part II, lines 1 through 4,
3. Schedule I, to report small plan financial information, and 8 (enter pension feature code 2N), and file Schedule MEP,
in the case of any plan that is a multiple-employer pension plan
unless exempt.
(including a pooled employer plan).
4. Schedule MB or SB, to report actuarial information, if
applicable. 2. Fully Insured Pension Plan: A pension benefit plan
5. Schedule MEP, to report information about multiple- providing benefits exclusively through an insurance contract or
employer pension plans, if applicable. contracts that are fully guaranteed and that meet all of the
6. Schedule R, to report retirement plan information, if conditions of 29 CFR 2520.104-44(b)(2) during the entire plan
applicable. year must complete all the requirements listed under this
Pension Benefit Plan Filing Requirements section, except that
If Schedule I, line 4k, is checked “No,” you must attach
such a plan is exempt from attaching Schedule H, Schedule I,
the report of the independent qualified public accountant
and an independent qualified public accountant’s opinion, and
(IQPA) or a statement that the plan is eligible and elects to
from the requirement to engage an IQPA.
defer attaching the IQPA’s opinion under 29 CFR 2520.104-50
in connection with a short plan year of seven months or less. A pension benefit plan that has insurance contracts of the
type described in 29 CFR 2520.104-44 as well as other assets
Large Pension Plan
must complete all requirements for a pension benefit plan,
The following schedules (including any additional information except that the value of the plan’s allocated contracts (see
required by the instructions to the schedules) must be attached below) should not be reported in Part I of Schedule H or I. All
to a Form 5500 filed for a large pension plan: other assets should be reported on Schedule H or Schedule I,
1. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance, and any other required schedules. If Schedule H is filed, attach
annuity, and investment contracts held by the plan. an accountant’s report in accordance with the Schedule H
2. Schedule C, if applicable, to report information on service instructions.
providers and, if applicable, any terminated accountants or Note. For purposes of the annual return/report and the
enrolled actuaries. alternative method of compliance set forth in 29 CFR
3. Schedule D, Part I, to list any CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and 2520.104-44, a contract is considered to be ‘‘allocated’’ only if
103-12 IEs in which the plan invested at any time during the the insurance company or organization that issued the contract
plan year. unconditionally guarantees, upon receipt of the required
4. Schedule G, to report loans or fixed income obligations in premium or consideration, to provide a retirement benefit of a
default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the specified amount. This amount must be provided to each
plan year, leases in default or classified as uncollectible, and participant without adjustment for fluctuations in the market
nonexempt transactions, i.e., file Schedule G if Schedule H value of the underlying assets of the company or organization,
(Form 5500) lines 4b, 4c, and/or 4d are checked ‘‘Yes.’’ and each participant must have a legal right to such benefits,
5. Schedule H, to report large plan financial information, which is legally enforceable directly against the insurance
unless exempt. company or organization. For example, deposit administration,
6. Schedule MB or SB, to report actuarial information, if immediate participation guarantee, and guaranteed investment
applicable. contracts are NOT allocated contracts for Form 5500 Annual
7. Schedule MEP, to report information about multiple- Return/Report purposes.
employer pension plans, if applicable.
8. Schedule R, to report retirement plan information, if
applicable.
General Instructions to Form 5500 -9-

Welfare Benefit Plan Filing Requirements or DCG reporting arrangement) or group insurance
arrangement (GIA).
Welfare benefit plan filers must complete the Form 5500
Annual Return/Report, including the signature block and, Plans that participate in CCTs, PSAs, 103-12 IEs, DCGs or
unless otherwise specified, attach the following schedules and GIAs that file as DFEs generally are eligible for certain annual
information: reporting relief. For reporting purposes, a CCT, PSA, 103-12
IE, DCG or GIA is considered a DFE only when a Form 5500
Small Welfare Plan
and all required schedules and attachments are filed for it in
The following schedules (including any additional information accordance with the following instructions.
required by the instructions to the schedules) must be attached
Only one Form 5500 should be filed for each DFE for all
to a Form 5500 filed for a small welfare plan that is neither
plans participating in the DFE; however, the Form 5500 filed
exempt from filing nor filing the Form 5500-SF:
for the DFE, including all required schedules and attachments,
1. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance
must report information for the DFE year (not to exceed 12
contracts held by the plan.
months in length) that ends with or within the participating
2. Schedule D, Part I, to list any CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and
plan’s year.
103-12 IEs in which the plan participated at any time during the
Any Form 5500 filed for a DFE is an integral part of the
plan year.
annual report of each participating plan, and the plan
3. Schedule I, to report small plan financial information.
administrator may be subject to penalties for failing to file a
A welfare plan that covered fewer than 100 participants
complete annual report unless both the DFE Form 5500 and
as of the beginning of the plan year and is required to file
the plan’s Form 5500 are properly filed. The information
a Form M-1, Report for Multiple-Employer Welfare
required for a Form 5500 filed for a DFE varies according to
Arrangements (MEWAs) and Certain Entities Claiming
the type of DFE. The following paragraphs provide specific
Exception (ECEs), is exempt from attaching Schedule I if the
guidance for the reporting requirements for each type of DFE.
plan meets the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-44.
However, Schedule G, Part III, must be attached to the Form Master Trust Investment Account (MTIA)
5500 to report any nonexempt transactions. The administrator filing a Form 5500 for an employee benefit
Large Welfare Plan plan is required to file or have a designee file a Form 5500 for
each MTIA in which the plan participated at any time during the
The following schedules (including any additional information
plan year. For reporting purposes, a ‘‘master trust’’ is a trust for
required by the instructions to the schedules) must be attached
which a regulated financial institution (as defined below) serves
to a Form 5500 filed for a large welfare plan:
as trustee or custodian (regardless of whether such institution
1. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance and
exercises discretionary authority or control with respect to the
investment contracts held by the plan.
management of assets held in the trust), and in which assets of
2. Schedule C, if applicable, to report information on service
more than one plan sponsored by a single employer or by a
providers and any terminated accountants or actuaries.
group of employers under common control are held.
3. Schedule D, Part I, to list any CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and
103-12 IEs in which the plan invested at any time during the ‘‘Common control’’ is determined on the basis of all relevant
plan year. facts and circumstances (whether or not such employers are
4. Schedule G, to report loans or fixed income obligations in incorporated).
default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the A ‘‘regulated financial institution’’ means a bank, trust
plan year, leases in default or classified as uncollectible, and company, or similar financial institution that is regulated,
nonexempt transactions, i.e., file Schedule G if Schedule H supervised, and subject to periodic examination by a state or
(Form 5500) lines 4b, 4c, and/or 4d are checked ‘‘Yes’’ or if a federal agency. A securities brokerage firm is not a ‘‘similar
large welfare plan that is not required to file a Schedule H has financial institution’’ as used here. See DOL Advisory Opinion
nonexempt transactions. 93-21A (available at www.dol.gov/ebsa).
5. Schedule H, to report financial information, unless exempt.
The assets of a master trust are considered for reporting
Attach the report of the independent qualified public purposes to be held in one or more ‘‘investment accounts.’’ A
accountant (IQPA) identified on Schedule H, line 3a, ‘‘master trust investment account’’ may consist of a pool of
unless line 3d(2) is checked. assets or a single asset. Each pool of assets held in a master
Neither Schedule H nor an IQPA’s opinion should be trust must be treated as a separate MTIA if each plan that has
attached to a Form 5500 filed for an unfunded, fully an interest in the pool has the same fractional interest in each
asset in the pool as its fractional interest in the pool, and if
insured or combination unfunded/insured welfare plan that
each such plan may not dispose of its interest in any asset in
covered 100 or more participants as of the beginning of the
the pool without disposing of its interest in the pool. A master
plan year that meets the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-44.
trust may also contain assets that are not held in such a pool.
However, Schedule G, Part III, must be attached to the Form
Each such asset must be treated as a separate MTIA.
5500 to report any nonexempt transactions. A welfare benefit
plan that uses a ‘‘voluntary employees’ beneficiary Notes. (1) If an MTIA consists solely of one plan’s asset(s)
association’’ (VEBA) under Code section 501(c)(9) is generally during the reporting period, the plan may report the asset(s)
not exempt from the requirement of engaging an IQPA. either as an investment account on an MTIA Form 5500, or as
a plan asset(s) that is not part of the master trust (and
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) Filing
therefore subject to all instructions concerning assets not held
Requirements in a master trust) on the plan’s Form 5500. (2) If a master trust
holds assets attributable to participant or beneficiary directed
Some plans participate in certain trusts, accounts, and other
transactions under an individual account plan and the assets
investment or reporting arrangements that file the Form 5500
are interests in registered investment companies, interests in
Annual Return/Report as a DFE. A Form 5500 must be filed for
contracts issued by an insurance company licensed to do
a master trust investment account (MTIA). A Form 5500 is not
business in any state, interests in common/collective trusts
required but may be filed for a common/collective trust (CCT),
maintained by a bank, trust company or similar institution, or
pooled separate account (PSA), 103-12 investment entity (103-
the assets have a current value that is readily determinable on
12 IE), defined contribution group reporting arrangement (DCG
-10- General Instructions to Form 5500

an established market, those assets may be treated as a single 103-12 IEs in which the CCT or PSA invested at any time
MTIA. during the CCT or PSA year and to list in Part II all plans that
participated in the CCT or PSA during its year.
DCGs and multiple-employer pension plans that are
3. Schedule H, except lines 1b(1), 1b(2), 1c(8), 1d, 1e, 1g,
pooled employer plans cannot participate in an MTIA.
1h, 1i, 2a, 2b(1)(E), 2e, 2f, and 2g, to report financial
The Form 5500 submitted for the MTIA must comply with
information. Part IV and an accountant’s (IQPA’s) opinion are
the Form 5500 instructions for a Large Pension Plan, unless
not required for a CCT or PSA.
otherwise specified in the forms and instructions. The MTIA
must file: Different requirements apply to the Schedules D and H
1. Form 5500, except lines C, D, 1c, 2d, and 5 through 9. attached to the Form 5500 filed by plans and DFEs
participating in CCTs and PSAs, depending upon whether a
Be certain to enter ‘‘M’’ in Part I, line A, as the DFE code.
DFE Form 5500 has been filed for the CCT or PSA. See the
2. Schedule A (as many as needed) to report insurance,
instructions for these schedules.
annuity and investment contracts held by the MTIA.
3. Schedule C, if applicable, to report service provider 103-12 Investment Entity (103-12 IE)
information. Part III is not required for an MTIA.
DOL Regulation 2520.103-12 provides an alternative method
4. Schedule D, to list CCTs, PSAs, and 103-12 IEs in which
of reporting for plans that invest in an entity (other than an
the MTIA invested at any time during the MTIA year and to list
MTIA, CCT, or PSA), whose underlying assets include ‘‘plan
all plans that participated in the MTIA during its year.
assets’’ within the meaning of 29 CFR 2510.3-101 of two or
5. Schedule G, to report loans or fixed income obligations in
more plans that are not members of a ‘‘related group’’ of
default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the
employee benefit plans. Such an entity for which a Form 5500
MTIA year, all leases in default or classified as uncollectible,
is filed constitutes a ‘‘103-12 IE.’’ A Form 5500 is not required
and nonexempt transactions.
to be filed for such entities; however, filing a Form 5500 as a
6. Schedule H, except lines 1b(1), 1b(2), 1c(8), 1g, 1h, 1i,
103-12 IE provides certain reporting relief, including the
2a, 2b(1)(E), 2e, 2f, 2g, 4a, 4e, 4f, 4g, 4h, 4k, 4l, 4m, 4n, and
limitation of the examination and report of the independent
5, to report financial information. An independent qualified
qualified public accountant (IQPA) provided by 29 CFR
public accountant’s (IQPA’s) opinion is not required for an
2520.103-12(d), to participating plans and DFEs. For this
MTIA.
reporting purpose, a ‘‘related group’’ of employee benefit plans
7. Additional information required by the instructions to the
consists of each group of two or more employee benefit plans
above schedules, including, for example, the schedules of
(1) each of which receives 10% or more of its aggregate
assets held for investment and the schedule of reportable
contributions from the same employer or from a member of the
transactions. For purposes of the schedule of reportable
same controlled group of corporations (as determined under
transactions, the 5% figure shall be determined by comparing
Code section 1563(a), without regard to Code section
the current value of the transaction at the transaction date with
1563(a)(4) thereof); or (2) each of which is either maintained
the current value of the investment account assets at the
by, or maintained under a collective-bargaining agreement
beginning of the applicable fiscal year of the MTIA. All
negotiated by, the same employee organization or affiliated
attachments must be properly labeled.
employee organizations. For purposes of this paragraph, an
Common/Collective Trust (CCT) and Pooled ‘‘affiliate’’ of an employee organization means any person
Separate Account (PSA) controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such
organization. See 29 CFR 2520.103-12.
A Form 5500 is not required to be filed for a CCT or PSA.
However, the administrator of a large plan or DFE that The Form 5500 submitted for a 103-12 IE must comply with
participates in a CCT or PSA that files as specified below is the Form 5500 instructions for a Large Pension Plan, unless
entitled to reporting relief that is not available to plans or DFEs otherwise specified in the forms and instructions. The 103-12
participating in a CCT or PSA for which a Form 5500 is not IE must file:
filed. 1. Form 5500, except lines C, D, 1c, 2d, and 5 through 9.
For reporting purposes, ‘‘common/collective trust’’ and Enter ‘‘E’’ in part I, line A, as the DFE code.
‘‘pooled separate account’’ are, respectively: (1) a trust 2. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance,
maintained by a bank, trust company, or similar institution or annuity and investment contracts held by the 103-12 IE.
(2) an account maintained by an insurance carrier, which is 3. Schedule C, if applicable, to report service provider
regulated, supervised, and subject to periodic examination by a information and any terminated accountants.
state or federal agency in the case of a CCT, or by a state 4. Schedule D, to list all CCTs, PSAs, and 103-12 IEs in
agency in the case of a PSA, for the collective investment and which the 103-12 IE invested at any time during the
reinvestment of assets contributed thereto from employee 103-12 IE’s year, and to list all plans that participated in the
benefit plans maintained by more than one employer or 103-12 IE during its year.
controlled group of corporations as that term is used in Code 5. Schedule G, to report loans or fixed income obligations in
section 1563. See 29 CFR 2520.103-3, 103-4, 103-5, and default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the
103-12 IE year, leases in default or classified as uncollectible,
103-9.
and nonexempt transactions.
Note. For reporting purposes, a separate account that is not 6. Schedule H, except lines 1b(1), 1b(2), 1c(8), 1d, 1e, 1g,
considered to be holding plan assets under 29 CFR 2510.3- 1h, 1i, 2a, 2b(1)(E), 2e, 2f, 2g, 4a, 4e, 4f, 4g, 4h, 4j, 4k, 4l, 4m,
101(h)(1)(iii) does not constitute a pooled separate account. 4n, and 5, to report financial information.
The Form 5500 submitted for a CCT or PSA must comply 7. Additional information required by the instructions to the
with the Form 5500 instructions for a Large Pension Plan, above schedules, including, for example, the report of the
unless otherwise specified in the forms and instructions. independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) identified on
Schedule H, line 3a, and the schedule(s) of assets held for
The CCT or PSA must file:
investment. All attachments must be properly labeled.
1. Form 5500, except lines C, D, 1c, 2d, and 5 through 9.
Enter ‘‘C’’ or ‘‘P,’’ as appropriate, in Part I, line A, as the DFE
code.
2. Schedule D, to list all CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and
General Instructions to Form 5500 -11-

Defined Contribution Group Reporting information, number of participants, and other information.
Arrangements (DCGs or DCG Reporting 6. Schedule G to report loans or fixed income obligations in
default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the
Arrangements)
DCG year, leases in default or classified as uncollectible, and
Each defined contribution pension plan that reports as part of a nonexempt transactions.
DCG reporting arrangement is not required to file a separate 7. Schedule H, except lines 4e, 4f, 4k, 4l and 5, to report the
Form 5500 if a consolidated Form 5500 report for all the plans DCG’s financial information.
in the DCG is filed by the common plan administrator of the 8. Additional information required by the instructions to the
plans in accordance with 29 CFR 2510.103-14 and 29 CFR above schedules, including, for example, the report of the
2520.104-51, including a Schedule DCG for each participating independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) identified on
plan. Schedule DCG, line 14a, unless the plan is eligible for the
waiver of the annual examination and report of an IQPA under
For reporting purposes, an arrangement is a DCG reporting
29 CFR 2520.104-46. All attachments must be properly
arrangement only if all plans in the DCG:
labeled.
1. are individual account plans or defined contribution plans;
2. have the same trustee as described in ERISA section Note. The information reported on all the Schedules, except
403(a) (“common trustee”); Schedule DCG, is generally reported for all the plans in a DCG
3. have the same one or more named fiduciaries designated in the aggregate, except as otherwise provided.
in accordance with ERISA section 402(a) (“common
The plan administrator’s information entered on Part III,
fiduciaries”), however an individual employer may be a named
line 4 on each individual plan’s Schedule DCG must be
fiduciary of each employer’s own plan provided that the other
the DCG common plan administrator (i.e., the plan
named fiduciaries are the same and common to all plans;
administrator listed on the Form 5500, Part II, line 3 for the
4. have a designated plan administrator under ERISA
DCG) in order for the plan to report in the DCG group.
section 3(16)(A) that is the same plan administrator for all the
Group Insurance Arrangement (GIA)
plans in the DCG (“common plan administrator”);
5. have plan years beginning on the same date (“common Each welfare benefit plan that is part of a group insurance
plan year”); arrangement is exempt from the requirement to file a Form
6. provide the same investments or investment options to 5500 if a consolidated Form 5500 report for all the plans in the
participants and beneficiaries in all the plans (“common arrangement was filed in accordance with 29 CFR 2520.104-
investments or common investment options”). Certain 43. For reporting purposes, a ‘‘group insurance arrangement’’
brokerage window arrangements would qualify as a common provides benefits to the employees of two or more unaffiliated
investment option. See 29 CFR 2520.104-51(c)(3)(ii); employers (not in connection with a multiemployer plan or a
7. do not hold any employer securities at any time during the collectively-bargained multiple-employer plan), fully insures
plan year, except this does not prohibit investments in any one or more welfare plans of each participating employer, uses
employer’s publicly traded securities within one of the a trust or other entity as the holder of the insurance contracts,
“common investments or investment options” available to and uses a trust as the conduit for payment of premiums to the
participants and beneficiaries in all the plans; insurance company. The GIA must file:
8. either obtain an audit by an IQPA and file the IQPA report
1. Form 5500, except lines C and 2d. (Enter ‘‘G’’ in Part I,
with the DCG consolidated Form 5500, or be eligible for the
line A, as the DFE code).
waiver of the annual examination and report of an IQPA under
2. Schedule A (as many as needed), to report insurance,
29 CFR 2520.104-46; and
annuity and investment contracts held by the GIA.
9. not be a MEP (including a pooled employer plan) or a
3. Schedule C, if applicable, to report service provider
multiemployer plan.
information and any terminated accountants.
The Form 5500 submitted for a DCG must comply with the 4. Schedule D, to list all CCTs, PSAs, and 103-12 IEs in
Form 5500 instructions for a Large Pension Plan, unless which the GIA invested at any time during the GIA year, and to
otherwise specified in the forms and instructions. The DCG list all plans that participated in the GIA during its year.
must file: 5. Schedule G, to report loans or fixed income obligations in
1. Form 5500, except lines C, 2d and 7. Enter ‘‘D’’ in Part I, default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the
line A, as the DFE code for the DCG. GIA year, leases in default or classified as uncollectible, and
2. Schedule A (as many as needed) to report insurance, nonexempt transactions.
annuity, and investment contracts held by the plans 6. Schedule H, except lines 4a, 4e, 4f, 4g, 4h, 4k, 4m, 4n,
participating in a DCG. and 5, to report financial information.
3. Schedule C to report service provider information and any 7. Additional information required by the instructions to the
terminated accountants. above schedules, including, for example, the report of the
4. Schedule D, Part I only, to list all CCTs, PSAs, and 103- independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) identified on
12 IEs in which DCG participating plans invested at any time Schedule H, line 3a, the schedules of assets held for
during the DCG year. investment and the schedule of reportable transactions. All
5. Schedule DCG to report individual plan-level information attachments must be properly labeled.
such as the plan sponsor (i.e., employer), plan financial
-12- General Instructions to Form 5500

Quick Reference Chart of Form 5500, Schedules, and Attachments
(Not Applicable for Form 5500-SF Filers)1
Large Small Large Welfare Small Welfare
Pension Plan Pension Plan2 Plan Plan2 DFE
Form 5500 Must complete. Must complete. Must complete.3 Must complete.3 Must complete.
Must complete if
Schedule A Must complete if Must complete if plan Must complete if Must complete if plan
MTIA, 103-12 IE,
(Insurance plan has insurance has insurance plan has insurance has insurance
Information) contracts. contracts.4 contracts. contracts.4 DCG or GIA has
insurance contracts.
MTIAs, GIAs, DCGs
Must complete Part I Must complete Part I
and 103-12 IEs must
if service provider if service provider
complete Part I if
was paid $5,000 or was paid $5,000 or
service provider paid
more, Part II if a more, Part II if a
$5,000 or more, and
service provider service provider
Part II if a service
Schedule C failed to provide failed to provide
provider failed to
(Service Provider information Not required. information Not required.
provide information
Information) necessary for the necessary for the
necessary for the
completion of Part I, completion of Part I,
completion of Part I.
and Part III if an and Part III if an
GIAs and 103-12 IEs
accountant or accountant or
must complete Part
actuary was actuary was
III if accountant was
terminated. terminated.
terminated.
Must complete Part I
if DFE participated in
Must complete Part I Must complete Part I Must complete Part I Must complete Part I
Schedule D a CCT, PSA, or 103-
if plan participated in if plan participated in if plan participated in if plan participated in
(DFE/Participating 12 IE. All DFEs,
a CCT, PSA, MTIA, a CCT, PSA, MTIA, or a CCT, PSA, MTIA, a CCT, PSA, MTIA,
Plan Information) or 103-12 IE. 103-12 IE.4 or 103-12 IE. or 103-12 IE.4 other than DCGs,
must also complete
Part II.
Individual plans Individual plans
Individual plans
participating in a participating in a
Schedule DCG participating in a DCG
DCG must complete DCG must complete
(Individual Plan must complete to Not required. Not required.
Information)
to report individual
report individual plan-
to report individual
p in l f a o n r - m le a v ti e o l n.9 level information.9 p in l f a o n r - m le a v ti e o l n. 9
Must complete if
Must complete if Must complete if
Schedule G Schedule H, lines
(Financial Schedule H, lines Not required. Schedule H, lines Not required 3. 4b, 4c, or 4d for a
4b, 4c, or 4d are 4b, 4c, or 4d are
Schedules) “Yes.” “Yes.”3 GIA, DCG, MTIA, or
103-12 IE are “Yes.”
All DFEs must
complete Parts I, II,
Schedule H
and III. MTIAs,
(Financial Must complete.5 Not required. Must complete.3, 5 Not required.
103-12 IEs, DCGs
Information)
and GIAs must also
complete Part IV.5
Must complete.4
Schedule I
(Financial Not required. Not required. Must complete.4 Not required.
Information)
General Instructions to Form 5500 -13-

Large Small Large Welfare Small Welfare
Pension Plan Pension Plan2 Plan Plan2 DFE
Must complete if
Must complete if
multiemployer
multiemployer defined
Schedule MB defined benefit plan
benefit plan or money
(Actuarial or money purchase Not required. Not required. Not required.
purchase plan subject
Information) plan subject to
to minimum funding
m
st
i
a
n
n
im
da
u
r
m
ds
f
.
u
6
n ding standards.6
Schedule MEP
Must complete if Must complete if
(Multiple-Employer
Retirement Plan
multiple-employer multiple-employer Not required. Not required. Not required.
pension plan.8 pension plan. 8
Information)
Schedule R
(Pension Plan Must complete.7 Must complete.4, 7 Not required. Not required. Not required.
Information)
Must complete if Must complete if
single-employer or single-employer or
multiple-employer multiple-employer
Schedule SB
defined benefit plan, defined benefit plan,
(Actuarial Not required. Not required. Not required.
including an eligible including an eligible
Information)
combined plan and combined plan and
subject to minimum subject to minimum
funding standards. funding standards.
Must attach for a
GIA, 103-12 IE, or
Not required unless individual plans
Accountant’s Must attach. Schedule I, line 4k, is Must attach.3 Not required. participating in a
Report
checked “No.” DCG that checked
“Yes” on Schedule
DCG, line 14.9
1 This chart provides only general guidance. Not all rules and 4 Do not complete if filing the Form 5500-SF instead of the Form 5500.
requirements are reflected. Refer to specific Form 5500 instructions for 5 Schedules of assets and reportable (5%) transactions also must be
complete information on filing requirements (e.g., Who Must File and
filed with the Form 5500 if Schedule H, line 4i or 4j is “Yes.”
What To File). For example, a pension plan is exempt from filing any
schedules if the plan uses Code section 408 individual retirement 6 Money purchase defined contribution plans that are amortizing a
funding waiver are required to complete lines 3, 9, and 10 of the
accounts as the sole funding vehicle for providing benefits. See Limited
Schedule MB in accordance with the instructions. Also see instructions
Pension Plan Reporting.
for line 5 of Schedule R and line 12a of Form 5500-SF.
2 Pension plans and welfare plans with fewer than 100 participants at
7 Schedule R should not be completed when the Form 5500 Annual
the beginning of the plan year that are not exempt from filing an annual
Return/Report is filed for a pension plan that uses, as the sole funding
return/report may be eligible to file the Form 5500-SF, a simplified
vehicle for providing benefits, individual retirement accounts or
report. In addition to the limitation on the number of participants, a
annuities (as described in Code section 408). See the Form 5500
Form 5500-SF may only be filed for a plan that is exempt from the
instructions for Limited Pension Plan Reporting for more information.
requirement that the plan’s books and records be audited by an
independent qualified public accountant (but not by reason of 8 All multiple-employer pension plans must complete Schedule MEP,
enhanced bonding), has 100 percent of its assets invested in certain Parts I and II. Multiple-employer pension plans that are pooled
secure investments with a readily determinable fair market value, holds employer plans must also complete Schedule MEP, Part III.
no employer securities, is not a multiemployer plan, is not required to 9 Individual plans participating in a DCG must attach the report of an
file a Form M-1 (Report for Multiple-Employer Welfare Arrangements independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) identified on Schedule
(MEWAs) and Certain Entities Claiming Exception (ECEs)) for the plan
DCG, line 14a unless the plan is eligible for the waiver of the annual
year, is not a pooled employer plan, and is not filing as part of a DCG examination and report of an IQPA under 29 CFR 2520.104-46.
reporting arrangement. See the Form 5500-SF instructions, Who May
File Form 5500-SF.
3 Unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/fully insured
welfare plans covering fewer than 100 participants at the beginning of
the plan year that meet the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-20 are
exempt from filing an annual report. See Who Must File. Such a plan
with 100 or more participants must file an annual report, but is exempt
under 29 CFR 2520.104-44 from the accountant’s report requirement
and completing Schedule H, but MUST complete Schedule G, Part III,
to report any nonexempt transactions. See What To File. All Plans
required to file Form M-1 (Report for Multiple-Employer Welfare
Arrangements (MEWAs) and Certain Entities Claiming Exception
(ECEs)) must file a Form 5500 regardless of plan size or type of
funding.
-14- General Instructions to Form 5500

All multiple-employer pension plans that check this box must
Section 5: Line-by-Line
file Schedule MEP, Multiple-Employer Retirement Plan
Instructions for the 2025 Information (see Schedule MEP filing instructions for additional
Form 5500 and Schedules details) to report information about the participating employers.
Note. Do not check this box if all of the employers maintaining
Part I – Annual Return/Report Identification
the plan are members of the same controlled group or affiliated
Information service group under Code sections 414(b), (c), or (m). Do not
check this box for a DCG. See line A Box for Direct Filing
File the 2025 Form 5500 Annual Return/Report for a plan year
Entity (DFE).
that began in 2025 or a DFE year that ended in 2025. Enter the
beginning and ending dates in Part I. The 2025 Form 5500 Participating Employer Information. Multiple-employer
Annual Return/Report must be filed electronically. welfare plans required to file a Form 5500 do not file Schedule
MEP but instead must include an attachment using the format
One Form 5500 is generally filed for each plan or entity
below. The attachment must be properly identified at the top
described in the instructions to the boxes in line A. Do not
with the label “Multiple-Employer Welfare Plan Participating
check more than one box.
Employer Information,” and the name of the plan, EIN, and
A separate Form 5500, with line A (single-employer plan) plan number (PN) as found on the plan’s Form 5500. Complete
checked, must be filed by each employer participating in a plan as many entries as needed to report the required information
or program of benefits in which the funds attributable to each for all participating employers in the plan.
employer are available to pay benefits only for that employer’s
Except as provided below, all multiple-employer welfare
employees, even if the plan is maintained by a controlled
plans must complete elements 1-3 of the “Multiple-Employer
group.
Welfare Plan Participating Employer Information” attachment.
A “controlled group” is generally considered one employer
For element 3, enter a good faith estimate of each
for Form 5500 reporting purposes. A “controlled group” is a
employer’s percentage of the total contributions (including
controlled group of corporations under Code section 414(b), a
employer and participant contributions) made by all
group of trades or businesses under common control under
participating employers during the year. The percentage may
Code section 414(c), or an affiliated service group under Code
be rounded to the nearest whole percentage. To the extent the
section 414(m).
rounding results in the total reported percentage being either
Line A – Box for Multiemployer Plan. Check this box if the slightly above or slightly below 100 percent, the filer can
Form 5500 is filed for a multiemployer plan. A plan is a indicate that on the attachment. Any employer who was
multiemployer plan if: (a) more than one employer is required obligated to make contributions to the plan for the plan year,
to contribute, (b) the plan is maintained under one or more who made contributions to the plan for the plan year, or whose
collective bargaining agreements between one or more employees were covered under the plan is a “participating
employee organizations and more than one employer; (c) an employer” for this purpose. If a participating employer made no
election under Code section 414(f)(5) and ERISA section contributions, enter “-0-” in element 3.
3(37)(E) has not been made; and (d) the plan meets any other
Multiple-employer welfare plans that are unfunded, fully
applicable conditions of 29 CFR 2510.3-37. A plan that has
insured, or a combination of unfunded/insured and exempt
made a proper election under ERISA section 3(37)(G) and
under 29 CFR 2520.104-44 from the obligation to file financial
Code section 414(f)(6) on or before August 17, 2007, is also a
statements with their annual report are required to complete
multiemployer plan. Participating employers do not file
elements 1 and 2 only of the “Multiple-Employer Welfare Plan
individually for these plans.
Participating Employer Information” attachment.
Line A – Box for Single-Employer Plan. Check this box if
the Form 5500 is filed for a single-employer plan. A single- Multiple-Employer Welfare Plan Participating Employer
employer plan for this Form 5500 reporting purpose is an Information
employee benefit plan maintained by one employer or one
(Insert Name of Plan and EIN/PN as shown on the 5500)
employee organization.
1. Name of participating 2. EIN 3. Percent of Total
Line A – Box for Multiple-Employer Plan. Check this box if
employer Contributions for
the Form 5500 is being filed for a multiple-employer plan,
Plan Year
including a multiple-employer 403(b) plan. A multiple-employer
plan is a plan that is maintained by more than one employer
and is not one of the plans already described. A multiple- 1. Name of participating 2. EIN 3. Percent of Total
employer plan can be collectively bargained and collectively employer Contributions for
funded, but, if covered by PBGC termination insurance, must Plan Year
have properly elected before September 27, 1981, not to be
treated as a multiemployer plan under Code section 414(f)(5) 1. Name of participating 2. EIN 3. Percent of Total
or ERISA sections 3(37)(E) and 4001(a)(3), and have not employer Contributions for
revoked that election or made an election to be treated as a Plan Year
multiemployer plan under Code section 414(f)(6) or ERISA
section 3(37)(G). A single Form 5500 Annual Return/Report is
1. Name of participating 2. EIN 3. Percent of Total
filed for the multiple-employer plan; participating employers do
employer Contributions for
not file individually for this type of plan.
Plan Year
A pooled employer plan as defined in ERISA section 3(43)
operated by a “pooled plan provider” that meets the definition
under ERISA section 3(44) is a multiple-employer plan.
Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500 -15-

Form 5500 for the plan year 2025 if the number of participants
1. Name of participating 2. EIN 3. Percent of Total
covered as of the beginning of the 2025 plan year drops below
employer Contributions for
100. See Who Must File. Should the number of participants
Plan Year
covered by such a plan increase to 100 or more in a future
year, the plan must resume filing Form 5500 and enter ‘‘4S’’ on
Complete as many rows as needed to report the
line 8b on that year’s Form 5500. See 29 CFR 2520.104-20.
required information for all participating employers in
Line B – Box for Short Plan Year Return/Report. Check
the plan.
this box if this Form 5500 is being filed for a plan year period of
Line A –Box for Direct Filing Entity (DFE). Check this box less than 12 months. Provide the dates in Part I, Plan Year
and enter the correct letter from the following chart in the Beginning and Ending.
space provided to indicate the type of entity.
Line C – Box for Collectively-Bargained Plan. Check this
Type of entity Enter the letter box when the contributions to the plan and/or the benefits paid
by the plan are subject to the collective bargaining process
(even if the plan is not established and administered by a joint
Master Trust board of trustees and even if only some of the employees
M
Investment Account covered by the plan are members of a collective bargaining
unit that negotiates contributions and/or benefits). The
Common/Collective Trust C
contributions and/or benefits do not have to be identical for all
Pooled Separate employees under the plan.
P
Account
Line D – Box for Extension Using Form 5558. Check this
103-12 Investment E box if you filed for an extension of time using the IRS Form
Entity 5558. Please see Instructions for Form 5558 for more
information. (A copy of the Form 5558 must be retained with
Defined Contribution Group (DCG) D
the filer’s records).
Group Insurance G Line D – Box for Extension Using Automatic Extension.
Arrangement Check this box if you are filing using the automatic extension of
Note. A separate annual report with “M” entered as the DFE time to file Form 5500 until the due date of the federal income
code on Form 5500, line A, must be filed for each MTIA. See tax return of the employer (maintain a copy of the employer’s
instructions on page 11. extension of time to file the income tax return with the filer’s
records).
Line B – Box for First Return/Report. Check this box if an
annual return/report has not been previously filed for this plan Line D – Box for Extension Using Special Extension.
or DFE. For the purpose of completing this box, the Form Check this box if you are filing using a special extension of
5500-EZ is not considered an annual return/report. time to file the Form 5500 that has been announced by the
IRS, DOL, and PBGC. If you checked that you are using a
Line B – Box for Amended Return/Report. Check this box if
special extension of time, enter a description of the extension
you have already filed for the 2025 plan year and are now filing
of time in the space provided.
an amended return/report to correct errors and/or omissions on
the previously filed return/report. See instructions on page 6. Line D – Box for Filing Under the DFVC Program. Check this
box if you are filing under DOL’s Delinquent Filer Voluntary
Note. If an individual plan amended Schedule DCG to correct
Compliance (DFVC) Program.
errors and/or omissions in a previously filed Schedule DCG,
the DCG must submit an amended Form 5500, and include all Checking this box does not enter you in the DFVC
Schedules DCG for participating plans that were submitted Program. You can enter the program at this site:
with the original return. The line B box for “an amended www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/employers-and-advisers/plan-
return/report” on the Form 5500 must be checked. The line F administration-and-compliance/correction-programs/dfvcp
box for “an amended Schedule DCG” on the Schedule DCG See additional information on the DFVC Program at
must be checked on only those Schedules DCG that have www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/EBSA/about-ebsa/our-
been changed from the original submission. activities/resource-center/faqs/dfvcp.pdf, including filing by
Check the line B box for an “amended return/report” if you mail.
filed a previous 2025 annual return/report that was given a Applying and paying electronically to the DFVC Program is
“Filing_Received,” “Filing_Error,” or “Filing_Stopped” status by strongly recommended.
EFAST2. Do not check the line B box for an “amended
Line E – Box for a retroactively adopted plan as permitted
return/report” if your previous submission attempts were not by SECURE Act section 201. Check this box if the plan
successfully received by EFAST2 because of problems with the
sponsor adopted the plan during the 2025 plan year (i.e., by
transmission of your return/report. For more information, go to the due date, including extension, for filing the plan sponsor’s
the EFAST2 website at www.efast.dol.gov or call the EFAST2 tax return for the 2024 taxable year) and elected to treat the
Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278). plan as having been adopted before the 2025 plan year began
Line B – Box for Final Return/Report. Check this box if this (i.e., at the close as of the last day of the sponsor’s taxable
Form 5500 is the last annual return/report required to be year) as permitted by section 201 of the Setting Every
submitted for this plan. (See Final Return/Report.) Community Up for Retirement Enhancement Act of 2019
(SECURE ACT). Plans in this situation are not required to file a
Note. Do not check box B (Final Return/Report) if “4R” is
2024 Form 5500. However, if the plan is a defined benefit
entered on line 8b for a welfare plan that is not required to file
pension plan, the 2024 Schedule SB (Form 5500) must be
a Form 5500 for the next plan year because the welfare plan
included as an attachment to the 2025 Schedule SB (Form
has become eligible for an annual reporting exemption. For
5500) as part of the 2025 Form 5500. Please see Instructions
example, certain unfunded and insured welfare plans may be
for Schedule SB for more information.
required to file the 2025 Form 5500 and be exempt from filing a
-16- Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500

Part II – Basic Plan Information similar group of representatives of the parties who establish or
Line 1a. Enter the formal name of the plan or DFE or enough maintain the plan, if the plan is established or maintained
information to identify the plan or DFE. Abbreviate if jointly by one or more employers and one or more employee
necessary. If an annual return/report has previously been filed organizations, or by two or more employers;
on behalf of the plan, regardless of the type of form that was • The pooled plan provider that operates the plan, in the case
filed (Form 5500, Form 5500-EZ, or Form 5500-SF), use the of a pooled employer plan that meets the definition under
same name or abbreviation as was used on the prior filings. ERISA section 3(43); or
Once you use an abbreviation, continue to use it for that plan • The professional employer organization (PEO), in the case
on all future annual return/report filings with the IRS, DOL, and of a PEO multiple-employer plan that meets the conditions
PBGC. Do not use the same name or abbreviation for any under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(c).
other plan, even if the first plan is terminated. If the plan has Note. In the case of a multiple-employer plan or DCG, file only
changed its name from the prior year filing(s), complete line 4 one annual return/report for the plan or DCG. If an association,
to indicate that the plan was previously identified by a different pooled plan provider, PEO, or other entity listed above is not
name. the sponsor, enter the name of a participating employer as
Line 1b. Enter the three-digit plan or entity number (PN) the sponsor. A plan of a controlled group of corporations should
employer or plan administrator assigned to the plan or DFE. enter the name of one of the sponsoring members. In either
This three-digit number, in conjunction with the employer case, the same name must be used in all subsequent filings of
identification number (EIN) entered on line 2b, is used by the the Form 5500 for the multiple-employer plan or controlled
IRS, DOL, and PBGC as a unique 12-digit number to identify group (see instructions to line 4 concerning change in
the plan or DFE. sponsorship).
Start at 001 for plans providing pension benefits, plans 2. Enter any ‘‘in care of’’ (C/O) name.
providing pension and welfare benefits, or DFEs as illustrated 3. Enter the current street address. A post office box
in the table below. Start at 501 for plans providing only welfare number may be entered if the Post Office does not deliver mail
benefits and GIAs. Do not use 888 or 999. to the sponsor’s street address.
4. Enter the name of the city.
Once you use a plan or DFE number, continue to use it for
5. Enter the two-character abbreviation of the U.S. state or
that plan or DFE on all future filings with the IRS, DOL, and
possession and zip code.
PBGC. Do not use it for any other plan or DFE, even if the first
6. Enter the foreign routing code, if applicable. Leave U.S.
plan or DFE is terminated.
state and zip code blank if entering a foreign routing code and
country name.
For each Form 5500 Assign PN 7. Enter the foreign country, if applicable.
with the same EIN 8. Enter the D/B/A (the doing business as) or trade name of
(line 2b), when the sponsor if different from the plan sponsor’s name.
9. Enter any second address. Use only a street address
Part II, line 8a is 001 to the first plan or DFE. here, not a P.O. Box.
completed, or Part I, line A, Consecutively number others
Note. Use the IRS Form 8822-B, Change of Address or
for a DFE is checked and as 002, 003…
Responsible Party – Business, to notify the IRS if the address
an M, C, P, D or E is
provided here is a change in your business mailing address or
entered
your business location.
Part II, line 8b is completed 501 to the first plan or GIA.
Line 2b. Enter the nine-digit employer identification number
and 8a is not checked, or Consecutively number others
(EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor/employer, for example, 00-
Part I, line A, for a DFE is as 502, 503…
1234567. In the case of a DFE, enter the employer
checked and a G is entered
identification number (EIN) assigned to the CCT, PSA, MTIA,
103-12 IE, DCG or GIA.
Exception. If Part II, line 8a is completed and 333 (or a higher
number in a sequence beginning with 333) was previously Do not use a social security number in lieu of an EIN. The
assigned to the plan, that number may be entered on line 1b. Form 5500 is open to public inspection, and the contents are
Line 1c. Enter the date the plan first became effective. public information and are subject to publication on the
Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a social
Line 2a. Limit your response to the information required in
security number or any portion thereof on this line may result in
each row as specified below:
the rejection of the filing.
1. Enter the name of the plan sponsor or, in the case of a
Plan sponsor/employers without an EIN must apply for one
Form 5500 filed for a DFE, the name of the insurance
as soon as possible. The EBSA does not issue EINs. To apply
company, financial institution, or other sponsor of the DFE
for an EIN from the IRS:
(e.g., in the case of a GIA, the trust or other entity that holds
the insurance contract, in the case of an MTIA, one of the • Mail or fax Form SS-4, Application for Employer
sponsoring employers, or in the case of a DCG, the DCG Identification Number, obtained at www.irs.gov/orderforms.
sponsor, but, if an individual sponsor cannot be identified, • See www.IRS.gov/Businesses and click on “Employer ID
enter the common plan administrator’s name and be sure to Numbers” for additional information. The EIN is issued
check the box in line 3a). If the plan covers only the employees immediately once the application information is validated. (The
of one employer, enter the employer’s name. online application process is not yet available for corporations
with addresses in foreign countries or Puerto Rico.)
The term ‘‘plan sponsor’’ otherwise means:
• The employer, for an employee benefit plan that a single
employer established or maintains;
• The employee organization, in the case of a plan of an
employee organization;
• The association, committee, joint board of trustees, or other
Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500 -17-

A multiple-employer plan or plan of a controlled group of number may be entered if the Post Office does not deliver mail
corporations should use the EIN of the sponsor identified in to the administrator’s street address.
line 2a. The EIN must be used in all subsequent filings of the 4. Enter the name of the city.
Form 5500 for these plans (see instructions to line 4 5. Enter the two-character abbreviation of the U.S. state or
concerning change in EIN). possession and zip code.
If the plan sponsor is a group of individuals, get a single EIN 6. Enter the foreign routing code and foreign country, if
for the group. When you apply for the EIN, provide the name of applicable. Leave U.S. state and zip code blank if entering
foreign routing code and country information.
the group, such as ‘‘Joint Board of Trustees of the Local 187
Machinists’ Retirement Plan.’’ (If filing Form SS-4, enter the Line 3b. Enter the plan administrator’s nine-digit EIN. A plan
group name on line 1.) administrator must have an EIN for Form 5500 reporting
purposes. If the plan administrator does not have an EIN, apply
Note. EINs for funds (trusts or custodial accounts) associated
for one as explained in the instructions for line 2b. One EIN
with plans (other than DFEs) are generally not required to be
should be entered for a group of individuals who are,
furnished on the Form 5500; the IRS will issue EINs for such
collectively, the plan administrator.
funds for other reporting purposes. EINs may be obtained as
explained above. Plan sponsors should use the trust EIN Line 3c. Enter the telephone number for the plan
described above when opening a bank account or conducting administrator. Use numbers only, including area code, and do
other transactions for a trust that require an EIN. not include any special characters.
Line 2c. Enter the telephone number for the plan sponsor. Note. Employees of the plan sponsor who perform
Use numbers only, including area code, and do not include any administrative functions for the plan are generally not the plan
special characters. administrator unless specifically designated in the plan
document. If an employee of the plan sponsor is designated as
Line 2d. Enter the six-digit business code from the list of
the plan administrator, that employee must get an EIN.
business codes on pages 94, 95, and 96 that:
• In the case of a single-employer plan, best describes the In the case of a pooled employer plan, information for the
pooled employer plan and the pooled plan provider
primary nature of the plan sponsor’s business, and
operating the plan reported on the Form 5500 must match the
• In the case of a multiemployer plan, best describes the
information reported on the Form PR. Failure to report the
predominant industry in which the active participants are
same information could result in correspondence from the
employed (e.g., 484120 - General Freight Trucking, Long-
Department of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service.
distance, 236110 - Residential Building Construction).
Line 4. If the plan sponsor’s or DFE’s name and/or EIN have
Do not enter code 525100 (Insurance & Employee Benefit
changed or the plan name has changed since the last
Funds) or 813930 (Labor Unions and Similar Labor
return/report was filed for this plan or DFE, enter the plan
Organizations) unless the predominant industry in which the
sponsor’s or DFE’s name, EIN, the plan name, and the plan
active participants are employed is the industry of insurance
number as it appeared on the last return/report filed.
and employee benefit funds, or labor unions and similar labor
The failure to indicate on line 4 that a plan sponsor was
organizations.
previously identified by a different name or a different
Line 3a. Please limit your response to the information employer identification number (EIN) or that the plan name has
required:
been changed could result in correspondence from the DOL
1. Enter the name and address of the plan administrator and/or the IRS.
unless the administrator is the sponsor identified in line 2. If
Lines 5 and 6. All filers must complete both lines 5 and 6
both the plan administrator name and address are the same as
unless the Form 5500 is filed for an IRA Plan described in
the plan sponsor name and address, check the “Same as Plan
Limited Pension Plan Reporting, MTIA, CCT, PSA or 103-12
Sponsor” box and disregard items 2 through 6 below. If the
IE.
Form 5500 is submitted for a DFE, check the appropriate box
Note. Welfare plans complete only lines 5, 6a(1), 6a(2), 6b, 6c,
in Part I, line A, and enter the appropriate DFE code.
and 6d.
The term “plan administrator” means:
The description of ‘‘participant’’ in the instructions below is
• The person or group of persons specified as the
only for purposes of these lines.
administrator by the instrument under which the plan is
An individual becomes a participant covered under an
operated;
employee welfare benefit plan on the earliest of:
• The pooled plan provider that operates the plan, in the
case of a pooled employer plan that meets the definition • the date designated by the plan as the date on which the
under ERISA section 3(43); individual begins participation in the plan;
• The professional employer organization (PEO), in the case • the date on which the individual becomes eligible under the
of a PEO multiple-employer plan that meets the conditions plan for a benefit subject only to occurrence of the contingency
under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(c); for which the benefit is provided; or
• The common plan administrator that is the same • the date on which the individual makes a contribution to the
administrator for all the plans participating in a DCG, in the plan, whether voluntary or mandatory.
case of the DCG that meets the conditions under 29 CFR See 29 CFR 2510.3-3(d)(1). This includes former
2520.104-51; employees who are receiving group health continuation
• The plan sponsor/employer if an administrator is not so coverage benefits under Part 6 of ERISA and who are covered
designated; or by the employee welfare benefit plan. Covered dependents are
• Any other person prescribed by regulations if an not counted as participants. A child who is an “alternate
administrator is not designated and a plan sponsor cannot recipient” entitled to health benefits under a qualified medical
be identified. child support order (QMCSO) should not be counted as a
participant for lines 5 and 6. An individual is not a participant
2. Enter any “in care of” (C/O) name.
covered under an employee welfare plan on the earliest date
3. Enter the current street address. A post office box
-18- Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500

on which the individual (a) is ineligible to receive any benefit are entitled under the plan.
under the plan even if the contingency for which such benefit is
Line 6g. Enter in line 6g(1) the total number of participants
provided should occur, and (b) is not designated by the plan as
included on line 5 (total participants at the beginning of the
a participant. See 29 CFR 2510.3-3(d)(2). plan year) who have account balances at the beginning of the
Before counting the number of participants, especially in plan year. Enter in line 6g(2) the total number of participants
a welfare benefit plan, it is important to determine included on line 6f (total participants at the end of the plan
whether the plan sponsor has established one or more plans year) who have account balances at the end of the plan year.
for Form 5500/Form 5500-SF reporting purposes. As a matter For example, for a Code section 401(k) plan, the number
of plan design, plan sponsors can offer benefits through entered on line 6g(2) should be the number of participants
various structures and combinations. For example, a plan counted on line 6f who have made a contribution, or for whom
sponsor could create (i) one plan providing major medical a contribution has been made, to the plan for this plan year or
benefits, dental benefits, and vision benefits, (ii) two plans with any prior plan year. Defined benefit plans do not complete line
one providing major medical benefits and the other providing 6g.
self-insured dental and vision benefits; or (iii) three separate
Line 6h. Include any individual who terminated employment
plans. You must review the governing documents and actual
during this plan year, whether or not the individual (a) incurred
operations to determine whether welfare benefits are being a break in service, (b) received an irrevocable commitment
provided under a single plan or separate plans. from an insurance company to pay all the benefits to which the
The fact that you have separate insurance policies for each individual is entitled under the plan, and/or (c) received a cash
different welfare benefit does not necessarily mean that you distribution or deemed cash distribution of their nonforfeitable
have separate plans. Some plan sponsors use a “wrap” accrued benefit. Multiemployer plans and multiple-employer
document to incorporate various benefits and insurance plans that are collectively bargained do not have to complete
policies into one comprehensive plan. In addition, whether a line 6h.
benefit arrangement is deemed to be a single plan may be
Line 7. Only multiemployer plans should complete line 7.
different for purposes other than Form 5500/Form 5500-SF
Multiemployer plans must enter the total number of employers
reporting. For example, special rules may apply for purposes of
obligated to contribute to the plan. For purposes of line 7 of the
HIPAA, COBRA, and Internal Revenue Code compliance. If
Form 5500, an employer obligated to contribute is defined as
you need help determining whether you have a single welfare
an employer who, during the 2025 plan year, is a party to the
benefit plan for Form 5500/Form 5500-SF reporting purposes, collective bargaining agreement(s) under which the plan is
you should consult a qualified benefits consultant or legal maintained or who may otherwise be subject to withdrawal
counsel. liability under ERISA section 4203. Any two or more
For pension benefit plans, “alternate payees” entitled to contributing entities (e.g., places of business with separate
benefits under a qualified domestic relations order (QDRO) are collective bargaining agreements) that have the same nine-
not to be counted as participants for this line. digit employer identification number (EIN) must be aggregated
and counted as one employer for this purpose.
For pension benefit plans, “participant” for this line means
any individual who is included in one of the categories below: Line 8 - Benefits Provided Under the Plan. Do not leave
1. Active participants (i.e., any individuals who are currently blank. In the boxes for line 8a and 8b, as appropriate, enter all
in employment covered by the plan and who are earning or applicable two-character plan characteristic codes that applied
retaining credited service under the plan). This includes any during the reporting year from the List of Plan Characteristic
individuals who are eligible to elect to have the employer make Codes on pages 21 and 22 that describe the characteristics of
the plan being reported.
payments under a Code section 401(k) qualified cash or
deferred arrangement. Active participants also include any Note. In the case of an eligible combined plan under Code
nonvested individuals who are earning or retaining credited section 414(x) and ERISA section 210(e), the codes entered in
service under the plan. This does not include (a) nonvested line 8a must include any codes applicable for either the defined
former employees who have incurred the break in service benefit pension features or the defined contribution pension
period specified in the plan or (b) former employees who have features of the plan.
received a “cash-out” distribution or deemed distribution of
For plan sponsors of Puerto Rico plans, enter
their entire nonforfeitable accrued benefit.
characteristic code 3C only if:
2. Retired or separated participants receiving benefits (i.e., i. only Puerto Rico residents participate,
individuals who are retired or separated from employment ii. the trust is exempt from income tax under the laws of
covered by the plan and who are receiving benefits under the Puerto Rico, and
plan). This does not include any individual to whom an iii. the plan administrator has not made the election under
insurance company has made an irrevocable commitment to
ERISA section 1022(i)(2), and, therefore, the plan is not
pay all the benefits to which the individual is entitled under the
intended to qualify under section 401(a) of the Internal
plan.
Revenue Code (U.S).
3. Other retired or separated participants entitled to future
benefits (i.e., any individuals who are retired or separated from Line 9 - Funding and Benefit Arrangements. Check all
boxes that apply to indicate the funding and benefit
employment covered by the plan and who are entitled to begin
arrangements used during the plan year. The ‘‘funding
receiving benefits under the plan in the future). This does not
arrangement’’ is the method for the receipt, holding,
include any individual to whom an insurance company has
investment, and transmittal of plan assets prior to the time the
made an irrevocable commitment to pay all the benefits to
plan actually provides benefits. The ‘‘benefit arrangement’’ is
which the individual is entitled under the plan.
the method by which the plan provides benefits to participants.
4. Deceased individuals who had one or more beneficiaries
For purposes of line 9:
who are receiving or are entitled to receive benefits under the
plan. This does not include any individual to whom an ‘‘Insurance’’ means the plan has an account, contract, or
insurance company has made an irrevocable commitment to policy with an insurance company, insurance service, or other
pay all the benefits to which the beneficiaries of that individual similar organization (such as Blue Cross Blue Shield, or a
Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500 -19-

health maintenance organization) during the plan or DFE year. www.askebsa.dol.gov/mewa, and 29 CFR 2520.101-2 for more
(This includes investments with insurance companies such as information regarding the Form M-1 filing requirements for plan
guaranteed investment contracts (GICs).) An annuity account MEWAs and ECEs.
arrangement under Code section 403(b)(1) that is required to Line 11b. All plans that answered ‘‘Yes’’ in line 11a must
complete the Form 5500 should mark “insurance” for both the complete line 11b by answering either ‘‘Yes’’ or ‘‘No.’’ Do not
plan funding arrangement and plan benefit arrangement. Do leave the answer blank.
not check ‘‘insurance’’ if the sole function of the insurance
Line 11c. All plans that answered ‘‘Yes’’ in line 11a must enter
company was to provide administrative services.
a Receipt Confirmation Code for the 2025 Form M–1 annual
‘‘Code section 412(e)(3) insurance contracts’’ are report that was required to be filed with the Department of
contracts that provide retirement benefits under a plan that are
Labor under the Form M–1 filing requirements. The Receipt
guaranteed by an insurance carrier. In general, such contracts
Confirmation Code is a unique code generated by the Form M–
must provide for level premium payments over the individual’s
1 electronic filing system. You can find this code under the
period of participation in the plan (to retirement age), premiums
‘‘completed filings’’ area when you log into your Form M–1
must be timely paid as currently required under the contract,
electronic filing system at www.askebsa.dol.gov/mewa.
no rights under the contract may be subject to a security
If a plan that is subject to the Form M-1 filing requirements
interest, and no policy loans may be outstanding. If a plan is
was not required to file a 2025 Form M–1 annual report, enter
funded exclusively by the purchase of such contracts, the
the Receipt Confirmation Code for the most recent Form M–1
otherwise applicable minimum funding requirements of Code
that was required to be filed under the Form M–1 filing
section 412 and ERISA section 302 do not apply for the year
requirements on or before the date of filing the 2025 Form
and neither the Schedule MB nor the Schedule SB is required
5500. (For example, if a plan was not required to file a 2025
to be filed.
Form M–1 annual report by March 1, 2026, for the 2025
‘‘Trust’’ includes any fund or account that receives, holds, calendar year because it experienced a registration event
transmits, or invests plan assets other than an account or
between October 1 and December 31, 2025, and made a
policy of an insurance company. A custodial account
timely Form M–1 registration filing, the plan must enter on line
arrangement under Code section 403(b)(7) that is required to
11c of the 2025 Form 5500 the Receipt Confirmation Code
complete the Form 5500 should mark “trust” for both the plan
issued for the Form M–1 registration filing.)
funding arrangement and the plan benefit arrangement.
A welfare benefit plan’s failure to answer line 11a, and if
‘‘General assets of the sponsor’’ means either the plan applicable, lines 11b and 11c, or enter a valid Receipt
had no assets or some assets were commingled with the
Confirmation Code in line 11c, will subject the Form 5500 filing
general assets of the plan sponsor prior to the time the plan
to rejection as incomplete and civil penalties may be assessed
actually provided the benefits promised.
under ERISA Section 502(c)(2) and 29 CFR 2560.502c-2.
Example. If the plan holds all its assets invested in registered
investment companies and other non-insurance company
investments until it purchases annuities to pay out the benefits
promised under the plan, box 9a(3) should be checked as the
funding arrangement and box 9b(1) should be checked as the
benefit arrangement.
Note. An employee benefit plan that checks boxes 9a(1),
9a(2), 9b(1), and/or 9b(2) must attach Schedule A (Form
5500), Insurance Information, to provide information
concerning each contract year ending with or within the plan
year. See the instructions to the Schedule A and enter the
number of Schedules A on line 10b(3), if applicable.
Line 10. Check the boxes on line 10 to indicate the schedules
being filed and, where applicable, count the schedules and
enter the number of attached schedules in the space provided.
Form M-1 Compliance Information (to be
provided by all welfare plans).
Line 11a. All plans providing welfare benefits must complete
Part III, line 11a by answering either “Yes” or “No.” Do not
leave the answer blank. If the plan is a multiple-employer
welfare arrangement or an Entity Claiming Exception (ECE)
subject to the Form M-1, Report for Multiple-Employer Welfare
Arrangements (MEWAs) and Certain Entities Claiming
Exception (ECEs) filing requirements, check “Yes” and
complete line 11, elements 11b and 11c. If the answer is “No,”
skip elements 11b and 11c of line 11.
Generally, a Form M-1 must be filed each year by March 1st
following the calendar year in which a plan operates subject to
the Form M-1 filing requirement. (For example, a plan MEWA
that was operating in 2025 must file the 2025 Form M-1 annual
report by March 1, 2026.) In addition, Form M-1 filings are
necessary in the case of certain registration, origination, or
special events. See the instructions for Form M-1 at
-20- Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500

LIST OF PLAN CHARACTERISTIC CODES FOR LINES 8a AND 8b
CODE Defined Benefit Pension Features CODE Defined Contribution Pension Features
1A Benefits are primarily pay related. 2A Use this code if employer contributions in the return year
were based on one of the following allocation types:
1B Benefits are primarily flat dollar (includes dollars per year Age/service weighted or new comparability or similar
of service). plan – Age/service weighted plan: Allocations are based
on age, service, or age and service. New comparability
1C Cash balance or similar plan – Plan has a “cash balance”
or similar plan: Allocations are based on participant
formula. For this purpose, a “cash balance” formula is a
classifications and a classification(s) consists entirely or
benefit formula in a defined benefit plan by whatever
predominantly of highly compensated employees; or the
name (for example, personal account plan, pension
plan provides an additional allocation rate on
equity plan, life cycle plan, cash account plan, etc.) that
compensation above a specified threshold, and the
rather than, or in addition to, expressing the accrued
threshold or additional rate exceeds the maximum
benefit as a life annuity commencing at normal
threshold or rate allowed under the permitted disparity
retirement age, defines benefits for each employee in
rules of Code section 401(l).
terms more common to a defined contribution plan such
as a single sum distribution amount (for example, 10% of 2B Target benefit plan.
final average pay times years of service, or the amount
2C Money purchase (other than target benefit) plan.
of the employee’s hypothetical account balance).
2D Offset plan – Plan benefits are subject to offset for
1D Floor-offset plan – to offset for retirement benefits retirement benefits provided in another plan or
provided by an employer-sponsored defined contribution arrangement of the employer.
plan.
2E Profit-sharing plan.
1E Code section 401(h) arrangement – Plan contains
2F ERISA section 404(c) plan – This plan, or any part of it,
separate accounts under Code section 401(h) to provide
is intended to meet the conditions of 29 CFR 2550.404c-
employee health benefits.
1.
1F Code section 414(k) arrangement – Benefits are based 2G Total participant-directed account plan – Participants
partly on the balance of the separate account of the have the opportunity to direct the investment of all the
participant (also include appropriate defined contribution assets allocated to their individual accounts, regardless
pension feature codes). of whether 29 CFR 2550.404c-1 is intended to be met.
1G Variable annuity benefit formula – any benefit formula 2H Partial participant-directed account plan – Participants
under a defined benefit plan which provides that the have the opportunity to direct the investment of a portion
amount payable is periodically adjusted by reference to of the assets allocated to their individual accounts,
the difference between a rate of return and a specified regardless of whether 29 CFR 2550.404c-1 is intended
assumed interest rate. to be met.
1H Single-employer plan covered by PBGC that was 2I Stock bonus.
terminated and closed out for PBGC purposes – Before
the end of the plan year (or a prior plan year), (1) the 2J Code section 401(k) feature – A cash or deferred
plan terminated in a standard (or distress) termination arrangement described in Code section 401(k) that is
part of a qualified defined contribution plan that provides
and completed the distribution of plan assets in
satisfaction of all benefit liabilities (or all ERISA Title IV for an election by employees to defer part of their
compensation or receive these amounts in cash.
benefits for distress termination); or (2) a trustee was
appointed for a terminated plan under ERISA section 2K Code section 401(m) arrangement – Employee
4042. contributions are allocated to separate accounts under
the plan or employer contributions are based, in whole or
1I Frozen plan – As of the last day of the plan year, the plan
provides that no participant will get any new benefit in part, on employee deferrals or contributions to the
plan. Not applicable if plan is a Code section 401(k) plan
accrual (whether because of service or compensation).
with only QNECs and/or QMACs. Also not applicable if
1J Multiemployer plan covered by PBGC that was plan is a Code section 403(b)(1), 403(b)(7), or 408
terminated by mass withdrawal in accordance with arrangement/accounts annuities.
ERISA section 4041A(a)(2) during the plan year or in a An annuity contract purchased by Code section 501(c)(3)
prior plan year. 2L organization or public school as described in Code
section 403(b)(1) arrangement.”
1K Multiemployer plan covered by PBGC that was
Custodial accounts for regulated investment company
terminated by plan amendment in accordance with 2M
stock as described in Code section 403(b)(7).
ERISA section 4041A(a)(1) during the plan year or in a
Code section 408 accounts and annuities – See Limited
prior plan year.
Pension Plan Reporting instructions for pension plan
1L Multiemployer plan covered by PBGC that became 2N utilizing Code section 408 individual retirement accounts
insolvent as defined in ERISA Sec 4245(b) during the or annuities as the funding vehicle for providing benefits.
plan year or in a prior plan year and was still insolvent as
2O ESOP other than a leveraged ESOP.
of the end of the plan year.
2P Leveraged ESOP – An ESOP that acquires employer
securities with borrowed money or other debt-financing
techniques.
2Q The employer maintaining this ESOP is an S corporation.
Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500 -21-

LIST OF PLAN CHARACTERISTIC CODES FOR LINES 8a AND 8b (Continued)
2R Participant-directed brokerage accounts provided as an 3J U.S.-based plan that covers residents of Puerto Rico and
investment option under the plan. is qualified under both Code section 401 and section
1165 of the Internal Revenue Code of Puerto Rico.
2S 401(k) plan or 403(b) plan that provides for automatic
enrollment in plan that has elective contributions CODE Welfare Benefit Features
deducted from payroll.
4A Health (other than vision or dental).
2T Total or partial participant-directed account plan – plan
uses default investment account for participants who fail
4B Life insurance.
to direct assets in their account.
2U Multiple-employer pension plan sponsored by a bona fide 4C Supplemental unemployment.
group or association of employers that is an Association
4D Dental.
Retirement Plan that meets all the conditions under 29
CFR 2510.3-55(b).
4E Vision.
2V Multiple-employer pension plan that is a Professional
Employer Organization Plan (PEO Plan) that meets all 4F Temporary disability (accident and sickness).
the conditions under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(c).
4G Prepaid legal.
2W Multiple-employer pension plan that is a pooled employer
plan that meets the definition under ERISA section 3(43). 4H Long-term disability.
2X Multiple-employer defined contribution pension plan that 4I Severance pay.
does not fall under characteristic codes 2U, 2V or 2W.
4J Apprenticeship and training.
2Y Pension-linked emergency savings account – A short- 4K Scholarship (funded).
term savings account established as part of the plan in
accordance with ERISA section 801. 4L Death benefits (include travel accident but not life
insurance).
4P Taft-Hartley Financial Assistance for Employee Housing
CODE Other Pension Benefit Features
Expenses.
Use this code if the plan covered self-employed 4Q Other.
3B
individuals in the return year. 4R Unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/fully
insured welfare plan that will not file an annual report for
3C Plan not intended to be qualified - A plan not intended to
next plan year under 29 CFR 2520.104-20.
be qualified under Code sections 401, 403, or 408.
4S Unfunded, fully insured, or combination unfunded/fully
3D Pre-approved pension plan - A pre-approved plan under insured welfare plan that stopped filing annual reports in
sections 401, 403(a), 403(b), and 4975(e)(7) of the Code an earlier plan year under 29 CFR 2520.104-20.
that is subject to a favorable opinion letter from the IRS. 4T 10 or more employer plan under Code section
419A(f)(6).
3F Plan sponsor(s) received services of leased employees,
4U Collectively-bargained welfare benefit arrangement
as defined in Code section 414(n), during the plan year.
under Code section 419A(f)(5).
3H Plan sponsor(s) is (are) a member(s) of a controlled
group under Code section 414(b) or (c) or of an affiliated
service group under section 414(m).
3I Plan requiring that all or part of employer contributions
be invested and held, at least for a limited period, in
employer securities.
-22- Instructions for Part I and Part II of Form 5500

Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as
2025 Instructions for Schedule A reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule A is
attached.
(Form 5500)
Do not use a social security number in lieu of an EIN. The
Insurance Information Schedule A and its attachments are open to public inspection,
and the contents are public information and are subject to
publication on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the
General Instructions
inclusion of a social security number or any portion thereof on
Who Must File this Schedule A or any of its attachments may result in the
rejection of the filing.
Schedule A (Form 5500) must be attached to the Form 5500
filed for every defined benefit pension plan, defined You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
contribution pension plan, and welfare benefit plan required to mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For
file a Form 5500 if any benefits under the plan are provided by more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement
an insurance company, insurance service, or other similar under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not
organization (such as Blue Cross Blue Shield, or a health issue EINs.
maintenance organization). This includes investment contracts Part I – Information Concerning Insurance Contract
with insurance companies such as guaranteed investment
Coverage, Fees, and Commissions
contracts (GICs). In addition, Schedule A must be attached to
a Form 5500 filed for GIAs, MTIAs, DCGs and 103-12 IEs for Line 1(c). Enter the code number assigned by the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) to the
each insurance or annuity contract held in the MTIA, or 103-12
insurance company. If none has been assigned, enter zeros
IE or by a DCG or GIA.
“0” in the spaces provided.
Note. In the case of a DCG, a Schedule A must be completed
Line 1(d). If individual policies with the same carrier are
on an aggregate basis for all insurance or annuity contracts
that constitute one of the investments or investment options
grouped as a unit for purposes of this report, and the group
does not have one identification number, you may use the
available to all of the participants in a DCG participating plan,
contract or identification number of one of the individual
regardless of whether certificates are issued to individual plans
contracts, provided this number is used consistently to report
or participants upon selection of that option by a participant.
these contracts as a group and the plan administrator
If Form 5500 line 9a(1), 9a(2), 9b(1), or 9b(2) is
maintains the records necessary to disclose all the individual
checked, indicating that either the plan funding
contract numbers in the group upon request. Use separate
arrangement or plan benefit arrangement includes an account,
Schedules A to report individual contracts that cannot be
policy, or contract with an insurance company (or similar
grouped as a unit.
organization), at least one Schedule A would be required to be
Line 1(e). Since plan coverage may fluctuate during the year,
attached to the Form 5500 filed for a pension or welfare plan to
the administrator should estimate the number of persons that
provide information concerning the contract year ending with or
were covered by the contract at the end of the policy or contract
within the plan year.
year. Where contracts covering individual employees are
Do not file Schedule A for a contract that is an Administrative
grouped, compute entries as of the end of the plan year.
Services Only (ASO) contract, a fidelity bond or policy, or a
fiduciary liability insurance policy. Also, if a Schedule A for a Line 1(f) and (g). Enter the beginning and ending dates of the
policy year for the contract identified in 1(d). Leave 1(f) blank if
contract or policy is filed as part of a Form 5500 for an MTIA or
separate contracts covering individual employees are grouped.
103-12 IE that holds the contract, do not include a Schedule A
for the contract or policy on the Form 5500s filed for the plans Line 2. Report on line 2 the total of all insurance fees and
participating in the MTIA or 103-12 IE. commissions directly or indirectly attributable to the contract or
policy placed with or retained by the plan.
Check the Schedule A box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
10b(3)), and enter the number attached in the space provided Totals. Enter on line 2 the total of all such commissions and
if one or more Schedules A are attached to the Form 5500. fees paid to agents, brokers, and other persons listed on line 3.
Specific Instructions
Complete a separate line 3 item (elements (a) through (e)) for
each person listed.
Information entered on Schedule A should pertain to the
For purposes of lines 2 and 3, commissions and fees
insurance contract or policy year ending with or within the plan
include sales and base commissions and all other monetary
year (for reporting purposes, a year cannot exceed 12
and non-monetary forms of compensation where the broker’s
months).
agent’s, or other person’s eligibility for the payment or the
Example. If an insurance contract year begins on July 1 and amount of the payment is based, in whole or in part, on the
ends on June 30, and the plan year begins on January 1 and value (e.g., policy amounts, premiums) of contracts or policies
ends on December 31, the information on the Schedule A (or classes thereof) placed with or retained by an ERISA plan,
attached to the 2025 Form 5500 should be for the insurance including, for example, persistency and profitability bonuses.
contract year ending on June 30, 2025. The amount (or pro rata share of the total) of such
Exception. If the insurance company maintains records on the commissions or fees attributable to the contract or policy
basis of a plan year rather than a policy or contract year, the placed with or retained by the plan must be reported in line 2
information entered on Schedule A may pertain to the plan and in line 3, element (b) and/or (c), as appropriate.
year instead of the policy or contract year. Insurers must provide plan administrators with a
Include only the contracts issued to or held by the plan, proportionate allocation of commissions and fees attributable
GIA, MTIA, DCG or 103-12 IE for which the Form 5500 is to each contract. Any reasonable method of allocating
being filed. commissions and fees to policies or contracts is acceptable,
provided the method is disclosed to the plan administrator. A
reasonable allocation method could, in the Department of
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 5500) -23-

Labor’s view, allocate fees and commissions to a Schedule A These thresholds are for purposes of Schedule A reporting.
based on a calendar year calculation even if the plan year or Filers are cautioned that the payment or receipt of gifts and
policy year was not a calendar year. For additional information gratuities of any amount by plan fiduciaries may violate ERISA
on these Schedule A reporting requirements, see ERISA and give rise to civil liabilities and criminal penalties.
Advisory Opinion 2005-02A, available on the Internet at Line 3. Identify agents, brokers, and other persons individually
www.dol.gov/ebsa. in descending order of the amount paid. Complete as many
Where benefits under a plan are purchased from and entries as necessary to report all required information.
guaranteed by an insurance company, insurance service, or Complete elements (a) through (e) for each person as
other similar organization, and the contract or policy is reported specified below.
on a Schedule A, payments of reasonable monetary
Element (a). Enter the name and address of the agents,
compensation by the insurer out of its general assets to
brokers, or other persons to whom commissions or fees were
affiliates or third parties for performing administrative activities
paid.
necessary for the insurer to fulfill its contractual obligation to
Element (b). Report all sales and base commissions here. For
provide benefits, where there is no direct or indirect charge to
purposes of this element, sales and/or base commissions are
the plan for the administrative services other than the
monetary amounts paid by an insurer that are charged directly
insurance premium, then the payments for administrative
to the contract or policy and that are paid to a licensed agent or
services by the insurer to the affiliates or third parties do not
broker for the sale or placement of the contract or policy. All
need to be reported on lines 2 and 3 of Schedule A. This would
other payments should be reported in element (c) as fees.
include compensation for services such as recordkeeping and
claims processing services provided by a third party under a Element (c). Fees to be reported here represent payments by
contract with the insurer to provide those services but would an insurer attributable directly or indirectly to a contract or
not include compensation provided by the insurer incidental to policy to agents, brokers, and other persons for items other
the sale or renewal of a policy, such as finder’s fees, insurance than sales and/or base commissions (e.g., service fees,
brokerage commissions and fees, or similar fees. consulting fees, finders fees, profitability and persistency
bonuses, awards, prizes, and non-monetary forms of
Schedule A reporting also is not required for compensation
compensation). Fees paid to persons other than agents and
paid by the insurer to a “general agent” or “manager” for that
brokers should be reported here, not in Parts II and III on
general agent’s or manager’s management of an agency or
Schedule A as acquisition costs, administrative charges, etc.
performance of administrative functions for the insurer. For this
purpose, (1) a “general agent” or “manager” does not include Element (d). Enter the purpose(s) for which fees were paid.
brokers representing insureds, and (2) payments would not be Element (e). Enter the most appropriate organization code for
treated as paid for managing an agency or performance of the broker, agent, or other person entered in element (a).
administrative functions where the recipient’s eligibility for the
Code Type of Organization
payment or the amount of the payment is dependent or based
on the value (e.g., policy amounts, premiums) of contracts or 1 Banking, Savings & Loan Association, Credit Union,
policies (or classes thereof) placed with or retained by ERISA or other similar financial institution
plan(s). 2 Trust Company
3 Insurance Agent or Broker
Schedule A reporting is not required for occasional non-
4 Agent or Broker other than insurance
monetary gifts or meals of insubstantial value that are tax
5 Third party administrator
deductible for federal income tax purposes by the person
6 Investment Company/Mutual Fund
providing the gift or meal and would not be taxable income to
7 Investment Manager/Adviser
the recipient. For this exemption to be available, the gift or
8 Labor Union
gratuity must be both occasional and insubstantial. For this
9 Foreign entity (e.g., an agent or broker, bank,
exemption to apply, the gift must be valued at less than $50,
insurance company, etc., not operating within the
the aggregate value of gifts from one source in a calendar year
jurisdictional boundaries of the United States)
must be less than $100, but gifts with a value of less than $10
0 Other
do not need to be counted toward the $100 annual limit. If the
$100 aggregate value limit is exceeded, then the aggregate For plans, GIAs, MTIAs, DCGs and 103-12 IEs required to
value of all the gifts will be reportable. For this purpose, non- file Part I of Schedule C, commissions and fees listed on the
monetary gifts of less than $10 also do not need to be included Schedule A are not required to be reported again on Schedule
in calculating the aggregate value of all gifts required to be C. The amount of the compensation that must be reported on
reported if the $100 limit is exceeded. Schedule A must, however, be taken into account in
determining whether the agent’s, broker’s, or other person’s
Gifts from multiple employees of one service provider
direct or indirect compensation in relation to the plan or DFE is
should be treated as originating from a single source when
$5,000 or more and, thus, requiring the compensation not
calculating whether the $100 threshold applies. On the other
listed on the Schedule A to be reported on the Schedule C.
hand, in applying the threshold to an occasional gift received
See FAQs about the Schedule C available on the EBSA
from one source by multiple employees of a single service
website at www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/our-
provider, the amount received by each employee should be
activities/resource-center/faqs.
separately determined in applying the $50 and $100
Part II – Investment and Annuity Contract
thresholds. For example, if six employees of a broker attend a
business conference put on by an insurer designed to educate Information
and explain the insurer’s products for employee benefit plans, Line 4. Enter the current value of the plan’s interest at year
and the insurer provides, at no cost to the attendees, end in the contract reported on line 7, e.g., deposit
refreshments valued at $20 per individual, the gratuities would administration (DA), immediate participation guarantee (IPG),
not be reportable on lines 2 and 3 of the Schedule A even or guaranteed investment contracts (GIC).
though the total cost of the refreshments for all the employees
Exception. Contracts reported on line 7 need not be included
would be $120.
on line 4 if (1) the Schedule A is filed for a defined benefit
- 24- Instructions for Schedule A (Form 5500)

pension plan and the contract was entered into before March Part IV – Provision of Information
20, 1992, or (2) the Schedule A is filed for a defined
The insurance company, insurance service, or other similar
contribution pension plan and the contract is a fully benefit-
organization is required under ERISA section 103(a)(2) to
responsive contract, i.e., it provides a liquidity guarantee by a
provide the plan administrator with the information needed to
financially responsible third party of principal and previously
complete this return/report. If you do not receive this
accrued interest for liquidations, transfers, loans, or hardship
information in a timely manner, contact the insurance
withdrawals initiated by plan participants exercising their rights
company, insurance service, or other similar organization.
to withdraw, borrow, or transfer funds under the terms of a
Lines 11 and 12. If information is missing on Schedule A due
defined contribution plan that does not include substantial
to a refusal by the insurance company, insurance service, or
restrictions to participants’ access to plan funds.
other similar organization to provide information, check “Yes”
Important Reminder. Plans may treat multiple individual on line 11 and enter a description of the information not
annuity contracts, including Code section 403(b)(1) annuity provided on line 12. If you received all the information
contracts, issued by the same insurance company as a single necessary to complete the Schedule A, check “No” and leave
group contract for reporting purposes on Schedule A. line 12 blank.
Line 6a. The rate information called for here may be furnished As noted above, the insurance company, insurance
by attaching the appropriate schedules of current rates filed service, or other similar organization is statutorily
with the appropriate state insurance department or by required to provide you with all of the information necessary to
providing a statement regarding the basis of the rates. Enter complete the Schedule A but need not provide the information
“see attached” if appropriate. on a Schedule A itself.
Lines 7a through 7f. Report contracts with unallocated funds.
Do not include portions of these contracts maintained in
separate accounts. Show deposit fund amounts rather than
experience credit records when both are maintained.
Part III – Welfare Benefit Contract Information
Line 8i. Report a stop-loss insurance policy that is an asset of
the plan.
Note. Employers sponsoring welfare plans may purchase a
stop-loss insurance policy with the employer as the insured to
help the employer manage its risk associated with its liabilities
under the plan. These employer contracts with premiums paid
exclusively out of the employer’s general assets without any
employee contributions generally are not plan assets and are
not reportable on Schedule A.
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 5500) -25-

option that was not selected by any of the participants in a
2025 Instructions for Schedule C
particular plan. The $5,000 threshold is based on the total
(Form 5500) amount received by the service provider from all sources, not
Service Provider Information broken down and measured on a per plan or other allocated
method.
General Instructions Health and welfare plans that meet the conditions of the
limited exemption at 29 CFR 2520.104-44 or Technical
Who Must File
Release 92-01 are not required to complete and file a
Schedule C (Form 5500) must be attached to a Form 5500 Schedule C.
filed for a large pension or welfare benefit plan, an MTIA, a Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as
103-12 IE, DCG or a GIA to report certain information reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule C is
concerning service providers. Remember to check the attached.
Schedule C box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line 10b(4)) if a
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an
Schedule C is attached to the Form 5500.
EIN. The Schedule C and its attachments are open to public
Part I of the Schedule C must be completed to report inspection, and the contents are public information subject to
persons who rendered services to or who had transactions with publication on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the
the plan (or with the DFE in the case of a Schedule C filed by a inclusion of a social security number or any portion thereof on
DFE) during the reporting year if the person received, directly this Schedule C or any of its attachments may result in the
or indirectly, $5,000 or more in reportable compensation in rejection of the filing.
connection with services rendered or their position with the
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
plan or DFE, except:
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For
1. Employees of the plan whose only compensation in
more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement
relation to the plan was less than $25,000 for the plan year;
under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not
2. Employees of the plan sponsor or other business entity issue EINs.
where the plan sponsor or business entity is reported on the
Do not list PBGC or the IRS on Schedule C as service
Schedule C as a service provider, provided the employee did
providers.
not separately receive reportable direct or indirect
compensation in relation to the plan; Either the cash or accrual basis may be used for the
3. Persons whose only compensation in relation to the plan recognition of transactions reported on the Schedule C as long
consists of insurance fees and commissions listed in a as you use one method consistently.
Schedule A filed for the plan; and If service provider compensation is reported on a Schedule
4. Payments made directly by the plan sponsor that are not C filed as a part of a Form 5500 filed for a MTIA or a 103-12
reimbursed by the plan. In the case of a multiemployer or IE, do not report the same compensation again on the
multiple-employer plan, where the “plan sponsor” would be the Schedule C filed for the plans that participate in the MTIA or
joint board of trustees for the plan, payments by contributing 103-12 IE.
employers, directly or through an employer association, or by
Specific Instructions
participating employee organizations, should be treated the
same as payments by a plan sponsor. Part I – Service Provider Information
Only line 1 of Part I of the Schedule C must be completed You must enter the information required for each person who
for persons who received only “eligible indirect compensation” rendered services to or had transactions with the plan and
as defined below. who received $5,000 or more in total direct or indirect
Part II of the Schedule C must be completed to report compensation in connection with services rendered to the
service providers who fail or refuse to provide information plan or the person’s position with the plan during the plan
necessary to complete Part I of this Schedule. year.
Part III of the Schedule C must be completed to report a Example. A plan had service providers, A, B, C, and D,
termination in the appointment of an accountant or enrolled who received $12,000, $6,000, $4,500, and $430,
actuary during the 2025 plan year. respectively, in direct and indirect compensation from the
plan. Service providers A and B must be identified
For plans, GIAs, MTIAs, DCGs and 103-12 IEs required to
separately by name, EIN, etc. As service providers C and D
file Part I of Schedule C, commissions and fees listed on the
each received less than $5,000, they do not need to be
Schedule A are not required to be reported again on Schedule
reported on the Schedule C.
C. The amount of the compensation that must be reported on
Schedule A must, however, be taken into account in For Schedule C purposes, reportable compensation
determining whether the service provider’s direct or indirect includes money and any other thing of value (for example,
compensation in relation to the plan or DFE is $5,000 or more gifts, awards, trips) received by a person, directly or indirectly,
and, thus, requiring the compensation not listed on the from the plan (including fees charged as a percentage of
Schedule A to be reported on the Schedule C. See FAQs assets and deducted from investment returns) in connection
about the Schedule C available on the EBSA website at with services rendered to the plan, or the person’s position with
www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/our- the plan. The term “person” for this purpose includes
activities/resource-center/faqs. individuals, trades and businesses (whether incorporated or
unincorporated). See ERISA section 3(9).
Note: In the case of a DCG, each service provider to the DCG
and to each of the separate plans in the DCG must be reported Direct Compensation: Payments made directly by the
on the Schedule C, even if the service provider did not actually plan for services rendered to the plan or because of a person’s
provide services or charge fees to a particular plan because, position with the plan are reportable as direct compensation.
for example, the service provider provided investment Direct payments by the plan would include, for example, direct
management services with respect to a particular investment payments by the plan out of a plan account, charges to plan
-26- Instructions for Schedule C (Form 5500)

forfeiture accounts and fee recapture accounts, charges to a as an operating expense of the investment fund, not reportable
plan’s trust account before allocations are made to individual indirect compensation paid to a plan service provider or in
participant accounts, and direct charges to plan participant connection with a transaction with the plan.
individual accounts. Payments made by the plan sponsor, Other examples of reportable indirect compensation are
which are not reimbursed by the plan, are not subject to finder’s fees, float revenue, brokerage commissions
Schedule C reporting requirements even if the sponsor is (regardless of whether the broker is granted discretion),
paying for services rendered to the plan. research or other products or services, other than execution,
Indirect Compensation: Compensation received from received from a broker-dealer or other third party in connection
sources other than directly from the plan or plan sponsor is with securities transactions (soft dollars), and other transaction
reportable on Schedule C as indirect compensation from the based fees received in connection with transactions or
plan if the compensation was received in connection with services involving the plan whether or not they are capitalized
services rendered to the plan during the plan year or the as investment costs.
person’s position with the plan. For this purpose,
For more information, see FAQs about the Schedule C,
compensation is considered to have been received in
available on the EBSA website at
connection with services rendered to the plan or the person’s
www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/our-
position with the plan if the person’s eligibility for a payment is activities/resource-center/faqs.
based, in whole or in part, on services that were rendered to
Special rules for non-monetary compensation of
the plan or on a transaction or series of transactions with the
insubstantial value, guaranteed benefit insurance policies,
plan. Indirect compensation would not include compensation
bundled service arrangements, and allocating
that would have been received had the service not been
compensation among multiple plans:
rendered or the transaction had not taken place and that
cannot be reasonably allocated to the services performed or Excludable Non-Monetary Compensation: You may
transaction(s) with the plan. exclude non-monetary compensation of insubstantial value
(such as gifts or meals of insubstantial value) that is tax
Persons that provide investment management,
deductible for federal income tax purposes by the person
recordkeeping, claims processing, participant communication,
providing the gift or meal and would not be taxable income to
brokerage, and other services to the plan as part of an
the recipient. The gift or gratuity must be valued at less than
investment contract or transaction are considered to be
$50, and the aggregate value of gifts from one source in a
providing services to the plan for purposes of Schedule C
calendar year must be less than $100, but gifts with a value of
reporting and would be required to be identified in Part I if they
less than $10 do not need to be counted toward the $100 limit.
received $5,000 or more in reportable compensation for
If the $100 aggregate value limit is exceeded, then the value of
providing those services.
all the gifts over $10 will be reportable. Gifts received by one
Examples of reportable indirect compensation include fees
person from multiple employees of one entity must be treated
and expense reimbursement payments received by a person
as originating from a single source when calculating whether
from mutual funds, bank commingled trusts, insurance
the $100 threshold applies. On the other hand, gifts received
company pooled separate accounts, and other separately
from one person by multiple employees of one entity can be
managed accounts and pooled investment funds in which the
treated as separate compensation when calculating the $50
plan invests that are charged against the fund or account and
and $100 thresholds. For more information, see FAQs about
reflected in the value of the plan’s investment (such as
the Schedule C, available on the EBSA website at
management fees paid by a mutual fund to its investment
www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about-ebsa/our-
adviser, sub-transfer agency fees, shareholder servicing fees,
activities/resource-center/faqs.
account maintenance fees, and 12b-1 distribution fees). The
investment of plan assets and payment of premiums for These thresholds are for purposes of Schedule C
insurance contracts, however, are not in and of themselves reporting only. Filers are strongly cautioned that gifts and
payments for services rendered to the plan for purposes of gratuities of any amount paid to or received by plan fiduciaries
Schedule C reporting and the investment and payment of may violate ERISA and give rise to civil liabilities and criminal
premiums themselves are not reportable compensation for penalties.
purposes of Part I of the Schedule C. Fully Insured Group Health and Similarly Fully Insured
In the case of charges against an investment fund, Benefits: Where benefits under a plan are purchased from
reportable “indirect compensation” includes, for example, the and guaranteed by an insurance company, insurance service,
fund’s investment adviser asset-based investment or other similar organization, and the contract or policy is
management fee from the fund, brokerage commissions and reported on a Schedule A, payments of reasonable monetary
fees charged in connection with purchases and sales of compensation by the insurer out of its general assets to
interests in the fund, fees related to purchases and sales of persons for performing administrative activities necessary for
interests in the fund (including 12b-1 fees), fees for providing the insurer to fulfill its contractual obligation to provide benefits,
services to plan investors or plan participants such as where there is no direct or indirect charge to the plan for the
communication and other shareholder services, and fees administrative services other than the insurance premium,
relating to the administration of the employee benefit plan such would not be treated as indirect compensation for services
as recordkeeping services, Form 5500 return/report filing and provided to the plan for Schedule C reporting purposes. This
other compliance services. Amounts charged against the fund would include compensation for services such as
for other ordinary operating expenses, such as attorneys’ fees, recordkeeping and claims processing services provided by a
accountants’ fees, printers fees, are not reportable indirect third party under a contract with the insurer to provide those
compensation for Schedule C purposes. Also, brokerage costs services, but would not include compensation provided by the
associated with a broker-dealer effecting securities insurer incidental to the sale or renewal of a policy, such as
transactions within the portfolio of a mutual fund or for the finder’s fees, insurance brokerage commissions and fees, or
portfolio of an investment fund that holds “plan assets” for similar fees. Insurance investment contracts are not eligible for
ERISA purposes should be treated for Schedule C purposes this exception.
Instructions for Schedule C (Form 5500) -27-

Bundled Service Arrangements: For Schedule C consistent with the regulations prescribed under section 414(c)
reporting purposes, a bundled service arrangement includes of the Code.
any service arrangements where the plan hires one company
Line 1. Check “Yes” or “No” on line 1a to indicate whether you
to provide a range of services either directly from the are relying on the alternative reporting option for a person or
company, through affiliates or subcontractors, or through a persons who received only “eligible indirect compensation.” If
combination, which are priced to the plan as a single package you check “Yes” on line 1a, provide as many entries in line 1b
rather than on a service-by-service basis. A bundled service as necessary to identify the person or persons who provided
arrangement would also include an investment transaction in
you with the necessary disclosures regarding the eligible
which the plan receives a range of services either directly from
indirect compensation. If any indirect compensation is either
the investment provider, through affiliates or subcontractors, or
not of the type described below or if the plan did not receive
through a combination.
the written disclosures described below, the indirect
Direct payments by the plan to the bundled service provider compensation is not “eligible indirect compensation” for
should be reported as direct compensation to the bundled purposes of Part 1.
service provider. Such direct payments by the plan do not
(1) Eligible Indirect Compensation: The types of indirect
need to be allocated among affiliates or subcontractors and do
compensation that can be treated as eligible indirect
not need to be reported as indirect compensation received by compensation are indirect compensation that is fees or
the affiliates or subcontractors unless the amount paid to the expense reimbursement payments charged to investment
affiliate or subcontractor is set on a per transaction basis, e.g., funds and reflected in the value of the investment or return on
brokerage fees and commissions. investment of the participating plan or its participants, finder’s
Fees charged to the plan’s investment and reflected in the fees, “soft dollar” revenue, float revenue, and/or brokerage
net value of the investment, such as management fees paid by commissions or other transaction-based fees for transactions
mutual funds to their investment advisers, float revenue, or services involving the plan that were not paid directly by the
commissions (including “soft dollars”), finder’s fees, 12b-1 plan or plan sponsor (whether or not they are capitalized as
distribution fees, account maintenance fees, and shareholder investment costs).
servicing fees, must, subject to the alternative reporting option
Investment funds or accounts for this purpose would
for “eligible indirect compensation,” described below, be
include mutual funds, bank commingled trusts, including
treated as separate reportable compensation by the person
common and collective trusts, insurance company pooled
receiving the fee for purposes of Schedule C reporting. separate accounts, and other separately managed accounts
For each person who is a fiduciary to the plan or provides and pooled investment vehicles in which the plan invests.
one or more of the following services to the plan – contract Investment funds or accounts would also include separately
administrator, consulting, investment advisory (plan or managed investment accounts that contain assets of individual
participants), investment management, securities brokerage, plans.
or recordkeeping – commissions and other transaction based
(2) Required Written Disclosures: For the types of
fees, finder’s fees, float revenue, soft dollar and other non-
indirect compensation described above to be treated as
monetary compensation, would also be required to be treated
eligible indirect compensation for purposes of completing line
as separate compensation for Schedule C purposes even if
1, you must have received written materials that disclosed and
those fees were paid from mutual fund management fees or
described (a) the existence of the indirect compensation; (b)
other fees charged to the plan’s investment and reflected in the
the services provided for the indirect compensation or the
net value of the investment.
purpose for payment of the indirect compensation; (c) the
Other revenue sharing payments among members of a amount (or estimate) of the compensation or a description of
bundled service arrangement do not need to be allocated the formula used to calculate or determine the compensation;
among affiliates or subcontractors and treated as indirect and (d) the identity of the party or parties paying and receiving
compensation received by the affiliates or subcontractors in the compensation. The written disclosures for a bundled
determining whether the affiliate or subcontractor must be arrangement must separately disclose and describe each
separately identified on line 2 of the Schedule C. element or indirect compensation that would be required to be
separately reported if you were not relying on this alternative
For more information about bundled arrangements for
reporting option.
reporting purposes, see FAQs about the Schedule C, available
on the EBSA website at www.dol.gov/agencies/ebsa/about- If any person received eligible indirect compensation
ebsa/our-activities/resource-center/faqs. and either direct compensation and/or indirect
Allocating Compensation Among Multiple Plans: Where compensation that does not meet the requirements of this line
reportable compensation is received by a person in connection to be eligible indirect compensation, you cannot rely on the
alternative reporting option for that person and must complete
with several plans or DFEs, any reasonable method of
line 2 for each such person who received $5,000 or more in
allocating the compensation among the plans or DFEs may be
direct and indirect compensation.
used provided that the allocation method is disclosed to the
plan administrator. In calculating the $5,000 threshold for Line 2. Except for those persons and eligible indirect
purposes of determining whether a person must be identified in compensation for which you answered “Yes” to line 1 above,
Part I, include the amount of compensation received by the complete as many entries as needed to list each person
person that is attributable to the plan or DFE filing the Form receiving, directly or indirectly, $5,000 or more in total direct
5500, not the aggregate amount received in connection with all and indirect compensation. Start with the most highly
the plans or DFEs. compensated and list in descending order of compensation.
Affiliates: For purposes of Schedule C reporting, an Enter in element (a) the person’s name and complete elements
“affiliate” of a person includes any person, directly or indirectly, (a) through (h) as specified below. Use as many entries as
necessary to list all persons and information required to be
through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by,
reported.
or under common control with the person applying principles
-28- Instructions for Schedule C (Form 5500)

Element (a). Enter the EIN for the person identified in 67 Other insurance wrap fees
element (a). If the name of an individual is entered in element 68 “’Soft dollars’ commissions”
(a) and the individual does not have an EIN, enter the EIN of 70 Consulting fees
the individual’s employer. If the person is self-employed and 71 Securities brokerage commissions and fees
does not have an EIN, you may enter the person’s address 72 Other investment fees and expenses
and telephone number. Do not use a social security number in 73 Other insurance fees and expenses
lieu of an EIN. The Schedule C and its attachments are open 99 Other fees
to public inspection and are subject to publication on the
Element (c). Enter any relationship of the person
Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a social
identified in element (a) to the plan sponsor, to the participating
security number or any portion thereof on this Schedule C or
employer or employee organization, or to any person known to
any of its attachments may result in the rejection of the filing.
be a party-in-interest, for example, employee of employer,
Element (b). Select from the list below all codes that vice-president of employer, union officer, affiliate of plan
describe both the kind of services provided and the type of
recordkeeper, etc.
compensation received. Enter as many codes as apply:
Element (d). Enter the total amount of compensation
Code Service/Compensation
received directly from the plan for services rendered to the plan
10 Accounting (including auditing) during the plan year. If a service provider charges the plan a
11 Actuarial fee or commission, but agrees to offset the fee or commission
12 Claims processing with any revenue received from a party other than the plan or
13 Contract Administrator plan sponsor, for example, as part of a commission recapture
14 Plan Administrator or other offset arrangement, only the amount paid directly by
15 Recordkeeping and information management (computing, the plan after any revenue sharing offset should be entered in
tabulating, data processing, etc.) element (d). Enter in element (d), as direct payments by the
16 Consulting (general) plan, amounts that a plan sponsor, or contributing employer or
17 Consulting (pension) participating employee organization in the case of a
18 Custodial (other than securities) multiemployer or multiple-employer plan, pays a plan third-
19 Custodial (securities) party service provider that are reimbursed by the plan.
20 Trustee (individual) Note. Do not leave element (d) blank. If no direct
21 Trustee (bank, trust company, or similar financial institution) compensation was received, enter “0”.
22 Insurance agents and brokers
Element (e). Check “Yes” if the person identified in
23 Insurance services
element (a), or any related person, received during the plan
24 Trustee (discretionary)
year indirect compensation in connection with the person’s
25 Trustee (directed)
position with the plan or services provided to the plan. (See
26 Investment advisory (participants)
instructions above on definition of indirect compensation.) If
27 Investment advisory (plan)
the answer is “No,” skip elements (f) through (h) for the person
28 Investment management
identified in element (a).
29 Legal
Element (f). Check “Yes” if any of the indirect
30 Employee (plan)
compensation was eligible indirect compensation for which the
31 Named fiduciary
plan received the necessary disclosures. See instructions for
32 Real estate brokerage
line 1 for definition of eligible indirect compensation. Check
33 Securities brokerage
“No” if none of the indirect compensation was eligible indirect
34 Valuation (appraisals, etc.)
compensation.
35 Employee (plan sponsor)
Element (g). Enter the total of all indirect compensation
36 Copying and duplicating
that is not eligible indirect compensation for which the plan
37 Participant loan processing
received the necessary disclosure. Do not leave blank. If none,
38 Participant communication
enter “0”.
40 Foreign entity (e.g., an agent or broker, bank, insurance
company, etc. not operating within jurisdictional boundaries of Element (h). Check “Yes” if the service provider, instead of
the United States) an amount or an estimated amount, gave the plan a formula or
49 Other services other description of the method used to determine some or all
50 Direct payment from the plan of the indirect compensation received.
51 Investment management fees paid directly by plan Line 3. For each person identified in line 2 who is a fiduciary to
52 Investment management fees paid indirectly by plan the plan or provides one or more of the following services to
53 Insurance brokerage commissions and fees the plan – contract administrator, consulting custodial,
54 Sales loads (front end and deferred) investment advisory (plan or participants), investment
55 Other commissions management, broker, or recordkeeping – enter the requested
56 Non-monetary compensation information for each source from whom the person received
57 Redemption fees indirect compensation if (1) the amount of the compensation
58 Product termination fees (surrender charges, etc.) was $1,000 or more, or (2) the plan was given a formula or
59 Shareholder servicing fees other description of the method used to determine the indirect
60 Sub-transfer agency fees compensation rather than an amount or estimated amount of
61 Finders’ fees/placement fees the indirect compensation.
62 Float revenue Part II –Service Providers Who Fail or Refuse To
63 Distribution (12b-1) fees
Provide Information
64 Recordkeeping fees
65 Account maintenance fees Line 4. Provide the requested information for each plan
fiduciary or service provider who you believe failed or refused
66 Insurance mortality and expense charge
Instructions for Schedule C (Form 5500) -29-

to provide any of the information necessary to complete Part I enrolled actuary is by definition an individual and not a firm,
of this schedule. and you must report when the individual is terminated.
Important Reminder. Before identifying a fiduciary or service Provide an explanation of the reasons for the termination of
provider as a person who failed or refused to provide an accountant or enrolled actuary. Include a description of any
information, you should contact the fiduciary or service material disputes or matters of disagreement concerning the
provider to request the necessary information and tell them termination, even if resolved prior to the termination. If an
that you will list them on the Schedule C as a fiduciary or individual is listed, and the individual does not have an EIN,
service provider who failed or refused to provide information if the EIN to be entered should be the EIN of the individual’s
they do not provide the necessary information. employer.
Part III – Termination Information on Accountants Do not use a social security number in lieu of an EIN. The
and Enrolled Actuaries Schedule C and its attachments are open to public inspection,
and the contents are public information and are subject to
Complete Part III if there was a termination in the appointment
publication on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the
of an accountant or enrolled actuary during the 2025 plan year.
inclusion of a social security number or any portion thereof on
This information must be provided on the Form 5500 for the
this Schedule C or any of its attachments may result in the
plan year during which the termination occurred. For example,
rejection of the filing.
if an accountant was terminated in the 2025 plan year after
completing work on an audit for the 2024 plan year, the The plan administrator must also provide the terminated
termination should be reported on the Schedule C filed with the accountant or enrolled actuary with a copy of the explanation
2025 plan year Form 5500. If the accountant is a firm (such as for the termination provided in Part III of the Schedule C, along
a corporation, partnership, etc.), report when the service with a completed copy of the notice below.
provider (not an individual within the firm) was terminated. An
Notice to Terminated Accountant
or Enrolled Actuary
I, as plan administrator, verify that the explanation that is reproduced below or attached to this notice is the explanation concerning
your termination reported on the Schedule C (Form 5500) attached to the 2025 Form 5500, Annual Return/Report of Employee
Benefit Plan, for the __________________________________________________________(enter name of plan). This Form 5500
is identified in line 2b by the nine-digit EIN - (enter sponsor’s EIN), and in line 1b by the three-digit
PN________(enter plan number).
You have the opportunity to comment to the Department of Labor concerning any aspect of this explanation. Comments should
include the name, EIN, and PN of the plan and be submitted to: Office of Enforcement, Employee Benefits Security Administration,
U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20210.
Signed
Dated
-30- Instructions for Schedule C (Form 5500)

Element (a). Enter the name of the MTIA, CCT, PSA, or 103-
2025 Instructions for Schedule D
12 IE in which the plan or DFE filing the Form 5500
(Form 5500)
participated at any time during the plan or DFE year.
DFE / Participating Plan Information Element (b). Enter the name of the sponsor of the MTIA, CCT,
PSA, or 103-12 IE named in element (a).
General Instructions Element (c). Enter the nine-digit employer identification
number (EIN) and three-digit plan/entity number (PN) for each
Purpose of Schedule
MTIA, CCT, PSA, or 103-12 IE named in element (a). This
When the Form 5500 is filed for a plan or Direct Filing Entity must be the same DFE EIN/PN as reported on lines 2b and 1b
(DFE) that invested or participated in any master trust of the Form 5500 filed for the DFE. If a Form 5500 was not
investment accounts (MTIAs), 103-12 Investment Entities filed for a CCT or PSA named in element (a), enter the EIN for
(103-12 IEs), common/collective trusts (CCTs), and/or pooled the CCT or PSA and enter 000 for the PN. Do not use a social
separate accounts (PSAs), Part I provides information about security number or any portion thereof in lieu of an EIN. The
these entities. When the Form 5500 is filed for a DFE, Part II Schedule D and its attachments are open to public inspection,
provides information about plans participating in the DFE. and the contents are public information and are subject to
publication on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the
Who Must File
inclusion of a social security number or any portion thereof on
Employee Benefit Plans: Schedule D (Form 5500) must be this Schedule D or any of its attachments may result in the
attached to a Form 5500 filed for an employee benefit plan that rejection of the filing.
participated or invested in one or more CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, or
Element (d). Enter an M, C, P, or E, as appropriate, (see table
103-12 IEs at any time during the plan year.
below) to identify the type of entity (MTIA, CCT, PSA, or
Direct Filing Entities: Schedule D (Form 5500) must be
103-12 IE).
attached to a Form 5500 filed for a CCT, PSA, MTIA, 103-12
IE, or Group Insurance Arrangement (GIA), as a Direct Filing
Entity (i.e., when a “DFE” is checked on Part I, line A, of the Type of en tity Enter in (d)
Form 5500). Schedule D (Form 5500) must be attached to a
Form 5500 filed for a DFE that is a DCG, with Part I
MTIA M
completed, only if the DCG invested in 103-12 IEs, CCTs or
PSAs filing as DFEs.
CCT C
For more information, see instructions for Direct Filing Entity
PSA P
(DFE) Filing Requirements.
DCGs and multiple-employer pension plans that are 103-12 IE E
pooled employer plans cannot participate in an MTIA.
Element (e). Enter the dollar value of the plan’s or DFE’s
Check the Schedule D box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
interest as of the end of the year. If the plan or DFE for which
10b(5)) if a Schedule D is attached to the Form 5500.
this Schedule D is filed had no interest in the MTIA, CCT, PSA,
Complete as many repeating entries as necessary to report the
or 103-12 IE listed at the end of the year, enter ‘‘0’’.
required information.
Example for Part I: If a plan participates in an MTIA, the
Specific Instructions
MTIA is named in element (a); the MTIA’s sponsor is named in
Lines A, B, C, and D. The information must be the same as element (b); the MTIA’s EIN and PN are entered in element (c)
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule D is (such as: 12-3456789-001); an ‘‘M’’ is entered in element (d);
attached. and the dollar value of the plan’s interest in the MTIA as of the
end of plan year is entered in element (e).
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an
EIN. The Schedule D and its attachments are open to public If the plan also participates in a CCT for which a Form 5500
inspection, and the contents are public information and are was not filed, the CCT is named in another element (a); the
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy name of the CCT sponsor is entered in element (b); the EIN for
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any the CCT, followed by 000 is entered in element (c) (such as:
portion thereof on this Schedule D or any of its attachments 99-8765432-000); a “C” is entered in element (d); and the
may result in the rejection of the filing. dollar value of the plan’s interest in the CCT is entered in
element (e).
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For If the plan also participates in a PSA for which a Form 5500
more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement was filed, the PSA is named in a third element (a); the name of
under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not the PSA sponsor is entered in element (b); the PSA’s EIN and
issue EINs. PN is entered in element (c) (such as: 98-7655555-001); a “P”
is entered in element (d); and the dollar value of the plan’s
Part I – Information on Interests in MTIAs, CCTs,
interest in the PSA is entered in element (e).
PSAs, and 103-12 IEs (To Be Completed by Plans
Part II – Information on Participating Plans
and DFEs)
(To Be Completed Only by DFEs, Except DCGs)
Complete as many repeating entries as necessary to enter the
information specified below for all MTIAs, CCTs, PSAs, and Complete as many repeating entries as necessary to enter the
103-12 IEs in which the plan or DFE filing the Form 5500 information specified below for all plans that invested or
participated at any time during the plan or DFE year. participated in the DFE at any time during the DFE year.
Complete a separate item (elements (a) through (e)) for
each MTIA, CCT, PSA, or 103-12 IE.
Instructions for Schedule D (Form 5500) -31-

Note. DCGs are not required to complete Part II. A DCG’s Element (c). Enter the nine-digit EIN and three-digit PN for
participating plan information must be reported on Schedule each plan named in element (a). This is the EIN and PN
DCG. See Schedule DCG and related instructions. entered on lines 2b and 1b of the plan’s Form 5500 or Form
Complete a separate item (elements (a) through (c)) for 5500-SF. GIAs should enter the EIN of the sponsor listed in
each plan. element (b). Do not use a social security number in lieu of an
EIN. The Schedule D and its attachments are open to public
Element (a). Enter the name of each plan that invested or
inspection, and the contents are public information and are
participated in the DFE at any time during the DFE year. GIAs
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
need not complete element (a).
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any
Element (b). Enter the name of the sponsor of each and every portion thereof on this Schedule D or any of its attachments
plan investing or participating in the DFE. may result in the rejection of the filing.
-32- Instructions for Schedule D (Form 5500)

Note. An amended annual return/report filing must be
2025 Instructions for Schedule DCG
submitted as a complete replacement of the previously
(Form 5500)
submitted filing. If a Schedule DCG needs to be amended, the
Individual Plan Information common plan administrator must resubmit the entire annual
return/report filing for the DCG, with all required schedules and
attachments, including Schedule DCG for all the plans in the
General Instructions DCG, through EFAST2. You cannot submit just the Schedule
Purpose of Schedule DCG that is being amended. The line F box for “Amended
Schedule” must be checked only for those Schedules DCG
This schedule is used for a common plan administrator as
that have been changed from the original submission. See
defined in 29 CFR 2520.104-51(c)(2)(iii) to report information
EFAST2 FAQs available on the EFAST website at
regarding each individual plan participating in a Defined
www.efast.dol.gov.
Contribution Group Reporting Arrangement (DCG or DCG
Line F Box for the Final Schedule. Check this box if this is
reporting arrangement), as permitted by SECURE Act section
the last annual return/report required for this plan.
202.
Who Must File Note. Check this box if all assets under the plan have been
distributed to the participants and beneficiaries or legally
Schedule DCG must be attached to a Form 5500 filed for a transferred to the control of another plan. Do not check this
DFE that has checked the box in Part I, line A and specified box if you are reporting participants and/or assets at the end of
the report is for a DCG reporting arrangement (i.e., when “D” is the plan year or if you merely withdraw from a DCG reporting
entered as the DFE code on Part I, line A of the Form 5500). arrangement and still have a filing requirement for this plan.
Each plan participating in a DCG must individually complete a
Part III – Basic Individual Plan Information
Schedule DCG to be attached to the Form 5500. Remember to
check the Schedule DCG box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line Line 1a. Enter the formal name of the plan participating in the
10(a)(4)) and indicate the number of Schedules DCG that are DCG or enough information to identify the plan. Abbreviate if
attached to the Form 5500. necessary. If an annual return/report or a schedule has
previously been filed on behalf of the plan, regardless of the
For more information, see the instructions for DCG filing under
type of form or schedule that was filed, use the same name or
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) Filing Requirements.
abbreviation that was used on the prior filings. Once you use
Specific Instructions
an abbreviation, continue to use it for that plan on all future
Part I – DCG Information annual return/report or schedule filings with the IRS, DOL, and
PBGC. Do not use the same name or abbreviation for any
Lines A, B, C and D. The information must be the same as
other plan, even if the first plan is terminated. If the plan has
reported on lines 1a, 1b, 2a, and 2b of Part II of the DCG’s
changed its name from the prior year filing(s), complete line 3
Form 5500 to which this schedule is attached. For lines A and
to indicate that the plan was previously identified by a different
C, the DCG’s name may be different from the DCG sponsor’s
name.
name (e.g., in the case of the DCG sponsor that offers more
than one DCG reporting arrangement). Line 1b. Enter the three-digit plan or entity number (PN)
assigned to the plan participating in the DCG. This three-digit
Part II – Individual Plan Identification Information
number, in conjunction with the EIN entered on line 2b, is used
Line E Box for a Single-Employer Plan. Check this box to by the IRS, DOL, and PBGC as a unique 12-digit number to
confirm that Schedule DCG is filed for a defined contribution identify the plan.
pension plan that is a single-employer plan. A single-employer
Start at 001 for the first plan providing pension benefits.
plan for this reporting purpose is an employee benefit plan
Consecutively number other plans providing pension benefits
maintained by one employer or one employee organization
as 002, 003, etc. Once you use a plan number, continue to use
(determined on a controlled group basis) in which the funds
it for that plan on all future filings with the IRS, DOL, and
attributable to each employer are available to pay benefits only
PBGC. Do not use it for any other plan, even if the first plan or
for that employer’s employees. A plan that does not meet this
DFE is terminated.
definition is ineligible to participate in a DCG and should not
complete this Schedule. The plan instead must file a separate Line 1c. Enter the date the plan first became effective.
Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF (if eligible) in accordance with Line 2a. Enter the name of the plan sponsor. If the plan covers
form instructions. only the employees of one employer, enter the employer’s
name. Enter the current street address, the name of the city,
Line E Box for a Collectively-Bargained, Single-Employer
and the two-character abbreviation of the U.S. state or
Plan. Check this box if the contributions to the plan and/or the
possession and zip code. Enter a foreign postal code and
benefits paid by the plan are subject to the collective
country name, if applicable. Leave U.S. state and zip code
bargaining process. The contributions and/or benefits do not
blank if entering a foreign routing code and country name.
have to be identical for all employees under the plan.
A post office box number may be entered if the Post Office
Line F Box for the First Schedule. Check this box only if an
annual return/report has not been previously filed for this plan. does not deliver mail to the sponsor’s street address.
If a plan participates in a DCG reporting arrangement, it is Note. Use the IRS Form 8822-B, Change of Address or
treated as satisfying its annual return/report requirement under Responsible Party — Business, to notify the IRS if the address
Code section 6058(a) and ERISA section 104. provided here is a change in your business mailing address or
your business location.
Line F Box for an Amended Schedule. Check this box if an
annual return/report for the DCG has already been filed for the Line 2b. Enter the nine-digit EIN assigned to the plan
2025 plan year, including a Schedule DCG for this plan, and sponsor/employer. Do not use a SSN in lieu of an EIN.
you are now amending this Schedule DCG to correct errors Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a SSN or any
and/or omissions on the previously filed return/report. portion thereof on this line may result in the rejection of the
filing.
Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500) -33-

A plan sponsor/employer without an EIN must apply for one 2. Retired or separated participants receiving benefits (for
as soon as possible. To apply for an EIN from the IRS: example, individuals who are retired or separated from
• Mail or fax Form SS-4, “Application for EIN,” obtained at employment covered by the plan and who are receiving
benefits under the plan). This category does not include any
www.irs.gov/orderforms. See www.IRS.gov/Businesses and
individual to whom an insurance company has made an
click on “Employer ID Numbers” for additional information. The
irrevocable commitment to pay all the benefits to which the
EIN is issued immediately once the application information is
individual is entitled under the plan.
validated. (The online application process is not yet available
for corporations with addresses in foreign countries or Puerto 3. Other retired or separated participants entitled to future
Rico.) benefits (for example, any individuals who are retired or
separated from employment covered by the plan and who are
Line 2c. Enter the plan sponsor’s/employer’s telephone
entitled to begin receiving benefits under the plan in the
number, including the area code.
future). This category does not include any individual to whom
Line 2d. Enter the six-digit business code from the list of
an insurance company has made an irrevocable commitment
business codes on pages 94, 95, and 96 that best describes
to pay all the benefits to which the individual is entitled under
the primary nature of the plan sponsor’s/employer’s business.
the plan.
Do not enter code 525100 (Insurance & Employee Benefit
4. Deceased individuals who had one or more beneficiaries
Funds) or 813930 (Labor Unions and Similar Labor
who are receiving or are entitled to receive benefits under the
Organizations) unless the predominant industry in which the
plan. This category does not include any individual to whom an
active participants are employed is the industry of insurance
insurance company has made an irrevocable commitment to
and employee benefit funds, or the industry of labor unions
pay all the benefits to which the beneficiaries of that individual
and similar labor organizations.
are entitled under the plan.
Lines 3a-d. If the plan sponsor’s/employer’s name and/or EIN
have changed or the plan name has changed since the last Line 5d(1). Enter the number of participants included on line
5a (total number of participants at the beginning of the plan
return/report or schedule was filed for this plan, enter the plan
year) who have account balances at the beginning of the plan
sponsor’s name and EIN, the plan name, and the plan number
year.
as it appeared on the last return/report or schedule filed.
Line 5d(2). Enter the number of participants included on line
The failure to indicate on line 3 that a plan sponsor was
5b (total number of participants at the end of the plan year)
previously identified by a different name or a different
who have account balances at the end of the plan year. For
EIN or that the plan name has been changed could result in
example, for a section 401(k) plan the number entered on line
correspondence from the DOL and/or the IRS.
5d(2) should be the number of participants counted on line 5b
Line 4a. Enter the name and address of the common plan
who have made a contribution, or for whom a contribution has
administrator as shown on the DCG’s Form 5500, Part II, line
been made, to the plan for this plan year or any prior plan year.
3a.
Line 5e. Include any individual who terminated employment
Line 4b. Enter the common plan administrator’s nine-digit EIN
during this plan year, whether or not the individual (a) incurred
as shown on the DCG’s Form 5500, Part II, line 3b.
a break in service, (b) received an irrevocable commitment
Line 4c. Enter the telephone number for the common plan from an insurance company to pay all the benefits to which the
administrator as shown on the DCG’s Form 5500, Part II, line individual is entitled under the plan, and/or (c) received a cash
3c. Use numbers only, including the area code, and do not distribution or deemed cash distribution of their nonforfeitable
include any special characters. accrued benefit.
See Form 5500, Part II, lines 3a-3c for additional information. Part IV – Financial Information
Line 5a. Enter the total number of participants at the beginning Note. The cash, modified cash, or accrual basis accounting
of the plan year. methods may be used for recognition of transactions in Part IV,
Line 5b. Enter the total number of participants at the end of as long as you use one method consistently. If Form 5500 or
the plan year. Form 5500-SF was filed for the previous year, amounts
reported on Schedule DCG lines 6a, 6b, and 6c for the
Line 5c(1). Enter the total number of active participants at the
beginning of the plan year must be the same as reported for
beginning of the plan year.
the end of the plan year for the corresponding lines on the
Line 5c(2). Enter the total number of active participants at the return/report for the preceding plan year. If Schedule DCG was
end of the plan year.
filed in the previous year, the amount reported on lines 6a, 6b,
“Participant” for purpose of lines 5a–5c(2) means any and 6c for the beginning of the plan year must be the same as
individual who is included in one of the categories below. reported for the end of the plan year on the Schedule DCG
filed for the previous year. Use whole dollars only.
1. Active participants (for example, any individuals who are
currently in employment covered by the plan and who are Current value means fair market value where available.
earning or retaining credited service under the plan) including: Otherwise, it means the fair value as determined in good faith
• Any individuals who are eligible to elect to have the employer under the terms of the plan by a trustee or a named fiduciary,
assuming an orderly liquidation at the time of the
make payments under a section 401(k) qualified cash or
determination. See ERISA section 3(26).
deferred arrangement, and
Line 6a. Enter the total amount of plan assets at the beginning
• Any nonvested individuals who are earning or retaining
of the plan year in column (a). Do not include contributions
credited service under the plan.
designated for the 2025 plan year in column (a). Enter the total
This category does not include (a) nonvested former
amount of plan assets at the end of the plan year in column
employees who have incurred the break in service period
(b).
specified in the plan or (b) former employees who have
Line 6a(1). Enter the current value of all loans to participants,
received a “cash-out” distribution or deemed distribution of
including residential mortgage loans that are subject to Code
their entire nonforfeitable accrued benefit.
-34- Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500)

section 72(p). Include the sum of the value of the unpaid of accounting must not include contributions designated for
principal balances, plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any, for years before the 2025 plan year on line 7a(1).
participant loans made under an individual account plan with
Line 7a(3). Enter the amount of all other contributions
investment experience segregated for each account, which are including transfers or rollovers received from other plans
made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and secured valued on the date of contribution.
solely by a portion of the participant’s vested accrued benefit.
Line 7b. Enter the current value, at date contributed, of
When applicable, combine this amount with the current value
securities or other noncash property.
of any other participant loans. Do not include in column (b) a
participant loan that has been deemed distributed during the Line 7c. Enter the total cash, noncash, and other contributions
plan year under the provisions of Code section 72(p) and received and/or receivable by the plan from employers and
Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1, if both of the following participants during the plan year.
circumstances apply: Line 7d. Enter all other plan income for the plan year. Do not
1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a directed include transfers from other plans that are reported on line 7m.
investment solely of the participant’s individual account; and Examples of other income received and/or receivable include:
2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not 1. Interest on investments (including money market accounts,
continuing repayment under the loan. sweep accounts, etc.)
If both of these circumstances apply, report the loan as a 2. Dividends. (Accrual basis plans should include dividends
deemed distribution on line 7h. However, if either of these declared for all stock held by the plan even if the dividends
circumstances does not apply, the current value of the have not been received as of the end of the plan year.)
participant loan (including interest accruing thereon after the 3. Net gain or loss from the sale of assets.
deemed distribution) must be included in column (b) without
4. Other income such as unrealized appreciation (depreciation)
regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
in plan assets. To compute this amount, subtract the current
Note. After a participant loan that has been deemed distributed value of all assets at the beginning of the year plus the cost of
is included in the amount reported on line 7h, it is no longer to any assets acquired during the plan year from the current
be reported as an asset on line 6a unless, in a later year, the value of all assets at the end of the year minus assets
participant resumes repayment under the loan. However, such disposed of during the plan year.
a loan (including interest accruing thereon after the deemed
Line 7e. Add the total contributions (line 7c) and other plan
distribution) that has not been repaid is still considered
income (line 7d) during the plan year. If entering a negative
outstanding for purposes of applying Code section 72(p)(2)(A)
number, enter a minus sign (“–”) to the left of the number.
to determine the maximum amount of subsequent loans. Also,
the deemed distribution is not treated as an actual distribution Line 7f. Enter the total amount of benefits paid directly to
for other purposes, such as the qualification requirements of participants or beneficiaries, including payments made (and for
Code section 401, including, for example, the determination of accrual basis filers payments due) to or on behalf of
participants or beneficiaries in cash, securities, or other
top- heavy status under Code section 416 and the vesting
property (including rollovers of an individual’s accrued benefit
requirements of Treasury Regulations section 1.411(a)-7(d)(5).
or account balance). Include all eligible rollover distributions as
See Q&As 12 and 19 of Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-
defined in Code section 401(a)(31)(D) paid at the participant’s
1.
election to an eligible retirement plan (including an IRA within
The entry on line 6a, column (b) (plan assets at end of
the meaning of Code section 401(a)(31)(E)).
year) must include the current value of any participant loan
included as a deemed distribution in the amount reported for Line 7g. Enter total amount of corrective distributions,
any earlier year if, during the plan year, the participant including all distributions paid during the plan year of excess
resumes repayment under the loan. In addition, the amount to deferrals under Code section 402(g)(2)(A)(ii), excess
be entered on line 7h must be reduced by the amount of the contributions under Code section 401(k)(8), excess aggregate
participant loan reported as a deemed distribution for the contributions under Code section 401(m)(6), and allocable
earlier year. income distributed. Also include on this line any elective
deferrals and employee contributions distributed or returned to
Line 6b. Enter the total liabilities at the beginning and end of
employees during the plan year as well as any attributable
the plan year. Liabilities to be entered here do not include the
income that was also distributed.
value of future pension payments to participants. The amount
to be entered in line 6b for accrual basis filers includes, among Line 7h. Enter the total amount of certain deemed distributions
other things: of participant loans, including a participant loan that has been
deemed distributed during the plan year under the provisions
1. Benefit claims that have been processed and approved for
of Code section 72(p) and Treasury Regulations section
payment by the plan but have not been paid;
1.72(p)-1, only if both of the following circumstances apply:
2. Accounts payable obligations owed by the plan that were
1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a directed
incurred in the normal operations of the plan but have not been
investment solely of the participant’s individual account; and
paid; and
2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not
3. Other liabilities such as acquisition indebtedness and any
continuing repayment under the loan.
other amount owed by the plan.
If either of these circumstances does not apply, a deemed
Line 6c. Enter the net assets as of the beginning and end of
distribution of a participant loan should not be reported on line
the plan year. (Subtract line 6b from 6a). Line 6c, column (b),
7h. Instead, the current value of the participant loan (including
must equal the sum of line 6c, column (a), plus lines 7l(net
interest accruing thereon after the deemed distribution) must
income (loss)) and 7m (transfers to (from) the plan).
be included on line 6a(1)), column (b) (participant loans – end
Lines 7a(1) and (2). Enter the total cash contributions of year), without regard to the occurrence of a deemed
received and/or receivable by the plan from employers and distribution.
participants during the plan year. Plans using the accrual basis
Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500) -35-

Line 7i. The amount to be reported for expenses involving plan year 2022. This delinquent participant contribution is
administrative service providers (salaries, fees, and discovered in plan year 2023 and fully corrected in plan year
commissions) during the plan year includes the total fees paid 2023. The plan’s 2022 Form 5500, Schedule DCG, Line 9a
(or in the case of accrual basis plans, costs incurred during the reporting must include the delinquent participant contribution.
plan year but not paid as of the end of the plan year) by the The plan’s 2023 Form 5500, Schedule DCG, Line 9a reporting
plan for, among others: must include the delinquent contribution because although it is
1. Salaries to employees of the plan; fully corrected, it was delinquent within that 2023 reporting
period. The plan’s 2024 Form 5500, Schedule DCG, does not
2. Fees and expenses for accounting, actuarial, legal,
include the delinquent participant contribution that originated in
investment management, investment advice, and securities
the 2022 plan year, but is fully corrected in plan year 2023,
brokerage services;
because the delinquency that began in plan year 2022 form
3. Contract administrator fees; and year is no longer delinquent at any time within the 2024 plan
4. Fees and expenses for individual plan trustees, including year.
reimbursement for travel, seminars, and meeting expenses. Plans that check “Yes,” must enter the aggregate amount
Line 7j. Other expenses (paid and/or payable) include other of all late contributions for the year. The total amount of the
administrative and miscellaneous expenses paid by or charged delinquent contributions must be included on line 9a for the
to the plan during the plan year, including among others office year in which the contributions were delinquent and must be
supplies and equipment, telephone, and postage. carried over and reported again on line 9a for each subsequent
year (or on line 4a of Schedule H or I of the Form 5500 or line
Line 7k. Enter the total of all benefits paid or due reported on
10a of the Form 5500-SF if choosing not to rely on a DCG
lines 7f, 7g, 7h, and all other plan expenses reported on lines
Form 5500 filing to satisfy the plan’s reporting requirement in
7i and 7j during the plan year.
the subsequent year) until the year after the violation has been
Line 7l. Subtract line 7k from line 7e. fully corrected by payment of the late contributions and
Line 7m. Include in these figures the value of all transfers of reimbursement of the plan for lost earnings or profits. All
assets or liabilities into or out of the plan resulting from, among delinquent participant contributions must be reported on line 9a
other things, mergers and consolidations. A transfer of assets at least for the year in which they were delinquent even if
or liabilities occurs when there is a reduction of assets or violations have been fully corrected by the close of the plan
liabilities with respect to one plan and the receipt of these year. If no participant contributions were received or withheld
assets or the assumption of these liabilities by another plan. A by the employer during the plan year, answer “No.”
transfer is not a shifting of one plan’s assets or liabilities from
An employer holding participant contributions commingled
one investment to another. A transfer is not a distribution of all
with its general assets after the earliest date on which such
or part of an individual participant’s account balance that is contributions can reasonably be segregated from the
reportable on IRS Form 1099-R, Distributions From Pensions, employer’s general assets will have engaged in a prohibited
Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance use of plan assets (see ERISA section 406). If such a
Contracts, etc., (see the instructions for line 7f). Transfers out nonexempt prohibited transaction occurred with respect to a
at the end of the year should be reported as occurring during disqualified person (see Code section 4975(e)(2)), file IRS
the plan year. Form 5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee
Part V - Plan Characteristic Codes Benefit Plans, with the IRS to pay any applicable excise tax on
the transaction.
Line 8. Do not leave blank. Enter all applicable pension plan
characteristic codes that applied during the reporting year from Participant loan repayments paid to and/or withheld by an
the List of Plan Characteristic Codes on pages 21 and 22 that employer for purposes of transmittal to the plan that were not
best describe the characteristics of the plan. transmitted to the plan in a timely fashion must be reported
either on line 9a in accordance with the reporting requirements
Part VI - Compliance Questions
that apply to delinquent participant contributions or on line 9b.
Line 9a. Amounts paid by a participant or beneficiary to an See Advisory Opinion 2002-02A, available at
employer and/or withheld by an employer for contribution to www.dol.gov/ebsa.
the plan are participant contributions that become plan assets
For those Schedule DCG filers required to submit an
as of the earliest date on which such contributions can
IQPA report, delinquent participant contributions reported
reasonably be segregated from the employer’s general assets
on line 9a must be treated as part of the separate schedules
(see 29 CFR 2510.3-102). In the case of a plan with fewer than
referenced in ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A) and 29 CFR
100 participants at the beginning of the plan year, any amount
2520.103-1(b) and 2520.103-2(b) for purposes of preparing the
deposited with such plan not later than the 7th business day
IQPA’s opinion for such individual plan in a DCG, even though
following the day on which such amount is received by the
they are not required to be listed on Part III of the Schedule G
employer (in the case of amounts that a participant or
that is filed on a consolidated basis at the DCG level. If the
beneficiary pays to an employer), or the 7th business day
information reported on line 9a is not presented in accordance
following the day on which such amount would otherwise have
with regulatory requirements, i.e., when the IQPA concludes
been payable to the participant in cash (in the case of amounts
that the scheduled information required by line 9a does not
withheld by an employer from a participant’s wages), shall be
contain all the required information or contains information that
deemed to be contributed or repaid to such plan on the earliest
is inaccurate or is inconsistent with the plan’s financial
date on which such contributions or participant loan
statements, the IQPA report must make the appropriate
repayments can reasonably be segregated from the
disclosures in accordance with generally accepted auditing
employer’s general assets. See 29 CFR 2510.3-102(a)(2).
standards. For more information, see EBSA’s Frequently
The last plan year to include a delinquent participant Asked Questions about Reporting Delinquent Contributions on
contribution on Form 5500, Schedule DCG, Line 9a, and the Form 5500, available on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
accompanying schedule attachment, is the plan year in which These Frequently Asked Questions clarify that plans have an
the violation has been fully corrected. For example, a plan is obligation to include delinquent participant contributions on
first delinquent on a particular participant contribution during
-36- Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500)

their financial statements and supplemental schedules and that 5330 is required to be filed with the IRS to pay the excise tax
the IQPA’s report covers such delinquent contributions even on the transaction. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the
though they are no longer required to be included on Part III of amount.
the Schedule G. Although all delinquent participant Applicants that satisfy the VFCP requirements and the
contributions must be reported on line 9a, delinquent conditions of PTE 2002-51 (see the instructions for line
contributions for which the DOL Voluntary Fiduciary Correction 9a) are eligible for immediate relief from payment of certain
Program (VFCP) requirements and the conditions of the prohibited transaction excise taxes for certain corrected
Prohibited Transaction Exemption (PTE) 2002-51 have been
transactions, and are also relieved from the obligation to file
satisfied do not need to be treated as nonexempt party-in-
the Form 5330 with the IRS. When the conditions of PTE
interest transactions.
2002-51 have been satisfied, the corrected transactions should
The VFCP describes the specific transactions covered be treated as exempt under Code section 4975(c) for the
(which transactions include delinquent participant contributions purposes of answering line 9b.
to pension and welfare plans) and acceptable methods for
Nonexempt transactions. Nonexempt transactions with a
correcting violations. In addition, applicants that satisfy both
party-in-interest include any direct or indirect:
the VFCP and the conditions of PTE 2002-51 are eligible for
A. Sale or exchange, or lease, of any property between the
immediate relief from payment of certain prohibited transaction
plan and a party-in-interest.
excise taxes for certain corrected transactions and are also
relieved from the requirement to file the IRS Form 5330 with
the IRS. For more information on the VFCP, the specific B. Lending of money or other extension of credit between the
transactions covered (which transactions include delinquent plan and a party-in-interest.
participant contributions to pension and welfare plans), and
C. Furnishing of goods, services, or facilities between the plan
acceptable methods for correcting violations, see 90 Fed. Reg.
and a party-in-interest.
4192 (Jan. 15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15, 2025).
All delinquent participant contributions must be reported on line D. Transfer to, or use by or for the benefit of, a party in-
9a at least for the year in which they were delinquent even if interest, of any income or assets of the plan.
violations have been fully corrected by the close of the plan E. Acquisition, on behalf of the plan, of any employer security
year. Information about the VFCP is also available on the or employer real property in violation of ERISA section 407(a).
Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
F. Dealing with the assets of the plan for a fiduciary’s own
Line 9a Schedule. Attach a Schedule of Delinquent interest or own account.
Participant Contributions using the format below if you entered
G. Acting in a fiduciary’s individual or any other capacity in any
“Yes” on line 9a and you are checking “YES” on line 14
transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or represent
because the report of an IQPA for the plan is required. If you
a party) whose interests are adverse to the interests of the
choose to include participant loan repayments on line 9a, you
plan or the interests of its participants or beneficiaries.
must apply the same supplemental schedule and IQPA
H. Receipt of any consideration for their own personal account
disclosure requirements to the loan repayments as apply to
by a party-in-interest who is a fiduciary from any party dealing
delinquent transmittals of participant contributions.
with the plan in connection with a transaction involving the
income or assets of the plan.
Schedule DCG Line 9a – Schedule of Delinquent Party-in-Interest. For purposes of this form, party-in interest is
Participant Contributions deemed to include a disqualified person. See Code section
4975(e)(2). The term “party-in-interest” means, as to an
Participant Total that Constitutes Nonexempt Total Fully employee benefit plan:
Contributions Prohibited Transactions Corrected A. Any fiduciary (including, but not limited to, any
Transferred Under administrator, officer, trustee, or custodian), counsel, or
Late to Plan VFCP and
employee of the plan;
PTE
2002-51 B. A person providing services to the plan;
Check here if Contributions C ontributions Contributions C. An employer, any of whose employees are covered by the
Late Participant Not Corrected Pending
plan;
Loan Corrected Outside VFCP Correction in
Repayments VFCP D. An employee organization, any of whose members are
are included:  covered by the plan;
E. An owner, direct or indirect, of 50% or more of:
1. the combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled
Line 9b. Check “Yes” if any nonexempt transaction with a to vote or the total value of shares of all classes of stock of a
party-in-interest occurred. Do not check “Yes” with respect to corporation;
transactions that are: (1) statutorily exempt under Part 4 of 2. the capital interest or the profits interest of a partnership;
Title I of ERISA; (2) administratively exempt under ERISA or
section 408(a); (3) exempt under Code sections 4975(c) or
3. the beneficial interest of a trust or unincorporated
4975(d); or (4) delinquent participant contributions or
enterprise which is an employer or an employee organization
delinquent loan repayments reported on line 9a.
described in C or D;
You may indicate that an application for an administrative
F. A relative of any individual described in A, B, C, or E;
exemption is pending. If you are unsure whether a transaction
is exempt or not, you should consult either with a qualified G. A corporation, partnership, or trust or estate of which (or in
public accountant, legal counsel, or both. If the plan is a which) 50% or more of:
qualified pension plan and a nonexempt prohibited transaction 1. the combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled
occurred with respect to a disqualified person, an IRS Form to vote or the total value of shares of all classes of stock of
Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500) -37-

such corporation, at www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-
companies.html. For more information on the fidelity bonding
2. the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership,
requirements, see Field Assistance Bulletin 2008-04, available
or
on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
3. the beneficial interest of such trust or estate, is owned
directly or indirectly, or held by persons described in A, B, C, Note. Plans are permitted under certain conditions to purchase
fiduciary liability insurance. These fiduciary liability insurance
D, or E;
policies are not written specifically to protect the plan from
H. An employee, officer, director (or an individual having
losses due to dishonest acts and cannot be reported as fidelity
powers or responsibilities similar to those of officers or
bonds on line 4e.
directors), or a 10% or more shareholder directly or indirectly,
of a person described in B, C, D, E, or G, or of the employee Line 9e. Check ‘‘Yes,’’ if the plan suffered or discovered any
loss as a result of any dishonest or fraudulent act(s) even if the
benefit plan; or
loss was reimbursed by the plan’s fidelity bond or from any
I. A 10% or more (directly or indirectly in capital or profits)
other source. If ‘‘Yes’’ is checked enter the full amount of the
partner or joint venture of a person described in B, C, D, E, or
loss. If the full amount of the loss has not yet been determined,
G.
provide an estimate and disclose that the figure is an estimate
Line 9c. You must check “Yes” if any benefits due under the as determined in good faith by a plan fiduciary. You must keep,
plan were not timely paid or not paid in full. This would include in accordance with ERISA section 107, records showing how
required minimum distributions to 5% owners who have the estimate was determined.
attained the applicable age as described in Code section
Willful failure to report is a criminal offense. See ERISA
401(a)(9)(C)(v) whether or not retired and/or non-5% owners
section 501.
who have attained the applicable age as described in Code
section 401(a)(9)(C)(v) and have retired or separated from Line 10. Enter information concerning assets and/or liabilities
service; see Code section 401(a)(9). Include in this amount the transferred from this plan to another plan(s) (including spinoffs)
total of any outstanding amounts that were not paid when due during the plan year. A transfer of assets or liabilities occurs
when there is a reduction of assets or liabilities with respect to
in previous years that have continued to remain unpaid.
one plan and the receipt of these assets or the assumption of
Note: In the absence of other guidance, filers do not need to
these liabilities by another plan. Enter the name, plan sponsor
report on this line unpaid required minimum distribution (RMD)
EIN, and plan number of the transferee plan(s) involved on
amounts for participants who have retired or separated from
lines 10a, 10b, and 10c, respectively.
service, or their beneficiaries, who cannot be located after
Do not use a SSN in place of an EIN or include an
reasonable efforts or where the plan is in the process of
attachment that contains visible SSN.
engaging in such reasonable efforts at the end of the plan year
reporting period. Plan administrators and employers should Note. A distribution of all or part of an individual participant’s
review their plan documents for written procedures on locating account balance that is reportable on Form 1099-R should not
missing participants. Although the Department of Labor’s Field be included on line 10.
Assistance Bulletin 2014- 01 is specifically applicable to
IRS Form 5310-A, Notice of Plan Merger or
terminated defined contribution plans, employers and plan
Consolidation, Spinoff, or Transfer of Plan Assets or
administrators of ongoing plans may want to consider
Liabilities; Notice of Qualified Separate Lines of Business,
periodically using one or more of the search methods
must be filed at least 30 days before any plan merger or
described in the Field Assistance Bulletin in connection with
consolidation or any transfer of plan assets or liabilities to
making reasonable efforts to locate RMD-eligible missing
another plan. There is a penalty for not filing IRS Form 5310-A
participants.
on time.
Line 9d. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the aggregate Line 11. Check “Yes” if this is a defined contribution plan
amount of fidelity bond coverage for all claims. Check ‘‘Yes’’ subject to the minimum funding requirements of Code section
only if the plan itself (as opposed to the plan sponsor or 412.
administrator) is a named insured under a fidelity bond from an
Line 12a. Check “Yes” if this plan was permissively
approved surety covering plan officials and that protects the
aggregated with another plan to satisfy the requirements of
plan from losses due to fraud or dishonesty as described in 29
Code sections 410(b) and 401(a)(4). Generally, each single
CFR Part 2580. Generally, every plan official of an employee
plan must separately satisfy the coverage and
benefit plan who ‘‘handles’’ funds or other property of such
nondiscrimination requirements. However, generally, an
plan must be bonded. Generally, a person shall be deemed to
employer may designate two or more separate plans as a
be ‘‘handling’’ funds or other property of a plan, so as to
single plan for purposes of applying the ratio percentage test of
require bonding, whenever their duties or activities with respect
Treasury Regulations section 1.410(b)-2(b)(2) or the
to given funds are such that there is a risk that such funds
nondiscriminatory classification test of Treasury Regulations
could be lost in the event of fraud or dishonesty on the part of
section 1.410(b)-4. Two or more plans that are permissively
such person, acting either alone or in collusion with others.
aggregated and treated as a single plan for purposes of the
ERISA Section 412 and 29 CFR Part 2580 describe the
minimum coverage test of Code section 410(b) must also be
bonding requirements, including the definition of “handling” (29
treated as a single plan for purpose of the nondiscrimination
CFR 2580.412-6), the permissible forms of bonds (29 CFR
test under Code section 401(a)(4).
2580.412-10), the amount of the bond (29 CFR Part 2580,
subpart C), and certain exemptions such as the exemption for See Treasury Regulations sections 1.410(b)-7(d) and
unfunded plans, certain banks and insurance companies 1.401(a)(4)-9(a) for more information.
(ERISA section 412), and the exemption allowing plan officials Line 12b. Check the applicable method used to satisfy the
to purchase bonds from surety companies authorized by the nondiscrimination requirements of Code section 401(k). A safe
Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable reinsurers on federal harbor 401(k) plan is similar to a traditional 401(k) plan but,
bonds (29 CFR 2580.412-23). Information concerning the list among other things, it must provide for employer contributions.
of approved sureties and reinsurers is available on the Internet These contributions may be employer matching contributions,
-38- Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500)

limited to employees who defer, or employer contributions and its report must follow the same rules as required for a plan
made on behalf of all eligible employees, regardless of that is filing its own Form 5500 Annual Return/Report and not
whether they make elective deferrals. The safe harbor 401(k) having any of its reporting obligations satisfied by the filing of a
plan is not subject to the annual nondiscrimination tests that Form 5500 by a DCG. See Instructions to Schedule H, line 3.
apply to traditional 401(k) plans. Lines 14a(1) through 14a(4). These boxes identify the type
Check “Design-based safe harbor method” if this is a safe of opinion offered by the IQPA.
harbor 401(k) plan, that is, a SIMPLE 401(k) plan under Code
The Plan Administrator should confirm with the IQPA of
section 401(k)(11), a safe harbor 401(k) plan under Code
the participating plan subject to audit whether the opinion
section 401(k)(12), or a qualified automatic contribution
was an unmodified, qualified, disclaimer of, or adverse opinion
arrangement under Code section 401(k)(13). If the plan, by its
before answering line 14a.
terms, does not satisfy the safe harbor method, it generally
Line 14a. These boxes identify the type of opinion offered by
must satisfy the regular nondiscrimination test, known as the
the IQPA. The plan administrator should confirm with the IQPA
actual deferral percentage (ADP) test. Check the appropriate
whether the opinion was an unmodified, qualified, disclaimer
box to indicate if the plan uses the “current year” ADP test or
of, or adverse opinion before answering line 14a.
the “prior year” ADP test. Check “current year” ADP test if the
plan uses the current year testing method under which the Line 14a(1). Check if an unmodified opinion was issued under
ADP test is performed by comparing the current plan year’s SAS 136. Generally, an unmodified opinion is issued when the
ADP for highly compensated employees (HCEs) with the IQPA concludes that the plan’s financial statements are
current plan year’s (rather than the prior plan year’s) ADP for presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the
nonhighly compensated employees (NHCEs). Check all boxes applicable financial reporting framework (generally accepted
that apply for a plan that tests different groups of employees accounting principles (GAAP) or another basis such as
on a disaggregated basis. Check “N/A” if the plan is not modified cash or cash basis). This also includes the form of
required to test for nondiscrimination under Code section opinion that SAS 136 permits an IQPA to issue when the IQPA
401(k)(3), such as a plan in which no HCE is benefiting. has performed an ERISA section 103(a)(3)(C) audit under 29
CFR 2520.103-8 or 29 CFR 2520.103-12, or both, and had no
Line 13. If a plan sponsor or an employer adopted a pre-
modifications. Under 29 CFR 2520.103-8, the examination and
approved plan that relied on a favorable Opinion Letter of a
report of an IQPA does not need to extend to statements or
Pre-approved Plan, enter the date of the most recent favorable
information regarding assets held by a bank, similar institution,
Opinion Letter issued by the IRS and the Opinion Letter serial
or insurance carrier that is regulated and supervised and
number listed on the letter. A “Pre-approved Plan” is a plan
subject to periodic examination by a state or federal agency
approved by the IRS with a favorable Opinion Letter that is
provided that the statements or information are prepared by
made available by a Provider for adoption by employers,
and certified to by the bank or similar institution or the
including a standardized plan or a nonstandardized plan. A
insurance carrier. The term ‘‘similar institution’’ as used here
Pre-approved Plan may utilize either of two forms: a basic plan
does not extend to securities brokerage firms (see DOL
document with an adoption agreement or a single plan
Advisory Opinion 93-21A). Under 29 CFR 2520.103-12, an
document. The employer is permitted to make minor
audit of an employee benefit plan does not need extend to the
modifications to the plan. An “Adopting Employer” is an
investments in a pooled investment fund that files a separate
employer that adopts a Pre-approved Plan offered by a
audited Form 5500 as a 103-12 IE. For more information on
Provider, including a plan that is word-for-word identical to, or
filing requirements for 103-12 IEs, see Section 4: What to File.
a minor modification of, a plan of a Mass Submitter. If a plan
Neither of these regulations exempt the plan administrator
was modified in such a way that negates the Opinion Letter,
from engaging an IQPA nor from attaching the IQPA’s report to
then the plan sponsor is now no longer an Adopting Employer
the Schedule DCG.
of a Pre-approved Plan, and the plan is treated as an
individually designed plan. An “Opinion Letter” is a written Line 14a(2). Check if a qualified opinion was issued.
statement issued by the IRS to a Provider or Mass Submitter Generally, a qualified opinion is issued by an IQPA when (a)
as an opinion on the qualification in form of a plan under Code the IQPA, having obtained sufficient appropriate audit
section 401(a), Code section 403(a), or both Code sections evidence, concludes that misstatements, individually or in the
401(a) or 403(a) and 4975(e)(7). See Revenue Procedure aggregate, are material but not pervasive to the financial
2017-41 for more information. The Opinion Letter serial statements or (b) the IQPA is unable to obtain sufficient
number is a unique combination of a capital letter and a series appropriate audit evidence on which to base the opinion, but
of six numbers assigned to each Opinion Letter. the auditor concludes that the possible effects on the financial
statements of undetected misstatements, if any, could be
Part VII – Accountant’s Opinion Information for
material but not pervasive.
Large and Certain Small Participating Plans
Line 14a(3). Check if a disclaimer of opinion was issued. A
Line 14. Each defined contribution plan participating in a DCG disclaimer of opinion is issued when the IQPA is unable to
determines the number of plan participants used to determine
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base
“large plan” or “small plan” status by counting plan participants
the opinion, and the IQPA concludes that the possible effects
at the individual plan level using information on participants
on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, if
with account balances reported on lines 5d(1) and 5d(2) of
any, could be both material and pervasive.
Schedule DCG, including the “80 to 120” rule at 29 CFR
2520.103-1(d). See Section 4: What to File. Line 14a(4). Check if the plan received an adverse
accountant’s opinion. Generally, an adverse opinion is issued
A DCG participating plan must be audited and an IQPA
by an IQPA when the IQPA having obtained sufficient
report and audited financial statements for such plan must be
appropriate audit evidence, concludes that misstatements,
attached to the Schedule DCG for that participating plan
individually or in the aggregate, are both material and
unless the plan is a small plan (plan that covered fewer than pervasive to the financial statements.
100 participants with account balances as of the beginning of
the plan year) eligible for the waiver of the annual examination Line 14b. Check “DOL Regulation 2520.103-8” or “DOL
Regulation 2520.103-12(d)” (or both boxes, if applicable) if the
and report of an IQPA under 29 CFR 2520.104-46. The audit
Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500) -39-

IQPA performed an ERISA section 103(a)(3)(C) audit of the Line 14c. Enter the name and EIN of the accountant (or
plan’s financial statements under DOL regulations 29 CFR accounting firm) in the space provided on line 14c. Do not use
2520.103-8, 29 CFR 2520.103-12(d), or under both. If it was a SSN or any portion thereof in lieu of an EIN. The Schedule
not performed under 29 CFR 2520.103-8 or 29 CFR 2520.103- DCG is open to public inspection, and the contents are public
12(d), check box (3). Note. These regulations do not exempt information and are subject to publication on the Internet.
the plan administrator from engaging an IQPA or from Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a SSN or any
attaching the IQPA’s report to the Schedule DCG. If you check portion thereof on this Schedule DCG may result in the
box 103-8 or 103-12(d) or both, you must also check the rejection of the filing.
appropriate box on line 14a to identify the type of opinion
offered by the IQPA.
-40- Instructions for Schedule DCG (Form 5500)

amounts for each loan listed and label the attachment
2025 Instructions for Schedule G
“Schedule G, Part I – Overdue Loan Explanation.”
(Form 5500)
The due date, payment amount, and conditions for
Financial Transaction Schedules determining default in the case of a note or loan are usually
contained in the documents establishing the note or loan. A
loan is in default when the borrower is unable to pay the
General Instructions obligation upon maturity. Obligations that require periodic
repayment can default at any time. Generally, loans and fixed
Who Must File
income obligations are considered uncollectible when payment
Schedule G (Form 5500) must be attached to a Form 5500
has not been made and there is little probability that payment
filed for a large plan, MTIA, 103-12 IE, DCG or GIA to report
will be made. A fixed income obligation has a fixed maturity
loans or fixed income obligations in default or determined to be
date at a specified interest rate.
uncollectible as of the end of the plan year, leases in default or
Do not report in Part I participant loans under an individual
classified as uncollectible, and nonexempt transactions.
account plan with investment experience segregated for each
Check the Schedule G box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
account, that are made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-
10b(6)) if a Schedule G is attached to the Form 5500. 1, and that are secured solely by a portion of the participant’s
Complete as many entries as necessary to report the required vested accrued benefit. Report all other participant loans in
information. default or classified as uncollectible on Part I, and list each
The Schedule G consists of three parts. Part I of the such loan individually.
Schedule G reports any loans or fixed income obligations in Part II – Leases in Default or Classified as
default or determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the
Uncollectible
plan year. Part II of the Schedule G reports any leases in
default or classified as uncollectible. Part III of the Schedule G List any leases in default or classified as uncollectible. A lease
reports nonexempt transactions. is an agreement conveying the right to use property, plant, or
equipment for a stated period. A lease is in default when the
Note. In the case of a DCG, report the required information for
required payment(s) has not been made. An uncollectible
all the plans in the DCG, including identifying information for
lease is one where the required payments have not been
the specific individual plan as provided below.
made and for which there is little probability that payment will
Specific Instructions be made. Provide, on a separate attachment, an explanation of
what steps have been taken or will be taken to collect overdue
Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as
amounts for each lease listed and label the attachment
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule G is
attached. “Schedule G, Part II – Overdue Lease Explanation.”
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an For a DCG, include in the description in element (d) the
EIN. The Schedule G and its attachments are open to public name of the plan or plans involved, the EIN(s) and plan
number(s). This information must be the same as the
inspection, and the contents are public information and are
information reported on Part III of Schedule DCG.
subject to publication on the internet. Because of privacy
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any Part III – Nonexempt Transactions
portion thereof on this Schedule G or any of its attachments
All nonexempt party-in-interest transactions must be reported,
may result in the rejection of the filing.
regardless of whether disclosed in the accountant’s report,
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by unless the nonexempt transaction is:
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For
1. Statutorily exempt under Part 4 of Title I of ERISA;
more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement
2. Administratively exempt under ERISA section 408(a);
under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not
3. Exempt under Code sections 4975(c) or 4975(d);
issue EINs.
4. The holding of participant contributions in the employer’s
Part I – Loans or Fixed Income Obligations in Default general assets for a welfare plan that meets the conditions of
or Classified as Uncollectible ERISA Technical Release 92-01;
5. A transaction of a 103-12 IE with parties other than
List all loans or fixed income obligations in default or
the plan; or
determined to be uncollectible as of the end of the plan year or
6. A delinquent participant contribution or a delinquent
the fiscal year of the GIA, MTIA, DCG or 103-12 IE. Include:
participant loan repayment reported on Schedule H, line 4a.
• Obligations where the required payments have not been
made by the due date; Note. In the case of a DCG, include in the description in
• Fixed income obligations that have matured, but have not element (c) the plan in the DCG, the name of the plan or plans
been paid, for which it has been determined that payment will involved, EIN(s) and plan number(s). This information must be
not be made; and the same as the information reported on Part III of Schedule
• Loans that were in default even if renegotiated later during DCG.
the year. Nonexempt transactions with a party-in-interest include
any direct or indirect:
Note. Check box (a) and identify in element (b) each obligor
known to be a party-in-interest to the plan. For a DCG, include A. Sale or exchange, or lease, of any property between the
in the description in element (c) the name of the plan or plans plan and a party-in-interest.
involved, EIN(s) and plan number(s). This information must be B. Lending of money or other extension of credit between
the same as the information reported on Part III of Schedule the plan and a party-in-interest.
DCG. C. Furnishing of goods, services, or facilities between the
Provide, on a separate attachment, an explanation of what plan and a party-in-interest.
steps have been taken or will be taken to collect overdue D. Transfer to, or use by or for the benefit of, a party-in-
interest, of any income or assets of the plan.
Instructions for Schedule G (Form 5500) -41-

E. Acquisition, on behalf of the plan, of any employer indirectly, of a person described in B, C, D, E, or G, or of the
security or employer real property in violation of ERISA employee benefit plan; or
section 407(a). I. A 10% or more (directly or indirectly in capital or profits)
F. Dealing with the assets of the plan for a fiduciary’s own partner or joint venture of a person described in B, C, D, E,
interest or own account. or G.
G. Acting in a fiduciary’s individual or any other capacity in An unfunded, fully insured, or combination
any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or unfunded/insured welfare plan with 100 or more
represent a party) whose interests are adverse to the
participants exempt under 29 CFR 2520.104-44 from
interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or
completing Schedule H must still complete Schedule G, Part
beneficiaries.
III, to report nonexempt transactions.
H. A receipt of any consideration for their own personal
A plan that is required to file a Form M-1, Report for Multiple-
account by party-in-interest who is a fiduciary from any party
Employer Welfare Arrangements (MEWAs) and Certain
dealing with the plan in connection with a transaction
Entities Claiming Exception (ECEs), but that is not required to
involving the income or assets of the plan.
file the Schedule I because it has fewer than 100 participants
For purposes of this form, party-in-interest is deemed to
and meets the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-44, also
include a disqualified person. See Code section 4975(e)(2). must complete Schedule G, Part III, to report nonexempt
The term ‘‘party-in-interest’’ means, as to an employee transactions.
benefit plan:
If you are unsure whether a transaction is exempt or not, you
A. Any fiduciary (including, but not limited to, any should consult with either the plan’s independent qualified
administrator, officer, trustee or custodian), counsel, or public accountant or legal counsel or both.
employee of the plan;
You may indicate that an application for an administrative
B. A person providing services to the plan; exemption is pending.
C. An employer, any of whose employees are covered by
If the plan is a qualified pension plan and a nonexempt
the plan;
prohibited transaction occurred with respect to a disqualified
D. An employee organization, any of whose members are
person, an IRS Form 5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to
covered by the plan;
Employee Benefit Plans, is required to be filed with the IRS to
E. An owner, direct or indirect, of 50% or more of: (1) the
pay the excise tax on the transaction.
combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote
or the total value of shares of all classes of stock of a The DOL Voluntary Fiduciary Correction Program
corporation, (2) the capital interest or the profits interest of a (VFCP) describes how to apply, the specific
partnership, or (3) the beneficial interest of a trust or transactions covered (which transactions include delinquent
unincorporated enterprise that is an employer or an participation contributions to pension and welfare plans), and
employee organization described in C or D; acceptable methods for correcting violations. In addition,
F. A relative of any individual described in A, B, C, or E; applicants that satisfy both the VFCP requirements and the
G. A corporation, partnership, or trust or estate of which (or conditions of Prohibited Transaction Exemption (PTE) 2002-51
in which) 50% or more of: (1) the combined voting power of are eligible for immediate relief from payment of certain
all classes of stock entitled to vote or the total value of prohibited excise taxes for certain corrected transactions and
shares of all classes of stock of such corporation, (2) the are also relieved from the obligation to file the Form 5330 with
capital interest or profits interest of such partnership, or (3) the IRS. For more information, see 90 Fed. Reg. 4192 (Jan.
the beneficial interest of such trust or estate is owned 15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15, 2025). If conditions
directly or indirectly, or held by, persons described in A, B, of PTE 2002-51 are satisfied, corrected transactions should be
C, D, or E; treated as exempt under Code section 4975(c) for the
H. An employee, officer, director (or individual having purposes of answering Schedule G, Part III. Information about
powers or responsibilities similar to those of officers or the VFCP is also available on the internet at
directors), or a 10% or more shareholder, directly or www.dol.gov/ebsa.
-42- Instructions for Schedule G (Form 5500)

or PSA and expenses that were subtracted from the gross
2025 Instructions for Schedule H
income of the CCT or PSA in determining their net investment
(Form 5500) gain (loss). Instead, enter the CCT or PSA net gain (loss) on
line 2b(6) or (7) in accordance with the instructions for these
Financial Information
lines.
General Instructions If assets of one plan are maintained in two or more trust
funds, report the combined financial information in Parts I and II.
Who Must File
Current value means fair market value where available.
Schedule H (Form 5500) must be attached to a Form 5500 filed
Otherwise, it means the fair value as determined in good faith
for a pension benefit plan or a welfare benefit plan that covered
under the terms of the plan by a trustee or a named fiduciary,
100 or more participants as of the beginning of the plan year
assuming an orderly liquidation at time of the determination.
and a Form 5500 filed for an MTIA, CCT, PSA, 103-12 IE, DCG
See ERISA section 3(26).
or GIA. See the instructions to the Form 5500 in Section 4:
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) Filing Requirements. Note. For the 2025 plan year, plans that provide participant-
directed brokerage accounts as an investment alternative (and
Exceptions: (1) Fully insured, unfunded, or a combination of
have entered pension feature code ‘‘2R’’ on line 8a of the Form
unfunded/insured welfare plans and fully insured pension plans
5500) may report investments in assets made through
that meet the requirements of 29 CFR 2520.104-44 are exempt
participant-directed brokerage accounts either:
from completing the Schedule H. (2) If a Schedule I was filed for
the plan for the 2024 plan year or a Form 5500-SF and the plan 1. As individual investments on the applicable asset and
covered fewer than 121 participants as of the beginning of the liability categories in Part I and the income and expense
2025 plan year, the Schedule I may be completed instead of a categories in Part II, or
Schedule H. See What To File. If eligible, such a plan may file 2. By including on line 1c(15) the total aggregate value of the
the Form 5500-SF instead of the Form 5500 and its schedules, assets and on line 2c the total aggregate investment income
including the Schedule I. See Instructions for Form 5500-SF. (3) (loss) before expenses, provided the assets are not loans,
Plans that file a Form 5500-SF for the 2025 plan year are not partnership or joint-venture interests, real property, employer
required to file a Schedule H for that year. securities, or investments that could result in a loss in excess of
the account balance of the participant or beneficiary who
Check the Schedule H box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
directed the transaction. Expenses charged to the accounts
10b(1)) if a Schedule H is attached to the Form 5500. Do not
must be reported on the applicable expense line items.
attach both a Schedule H and a Schedule I to the same Form
Participant-directed brokerage account assets reported in the
5500.
aggregate on line 1c(15) should be treated as one asset held for
Note. DCGs report Schedule H information collectively for all investment for purposes of the line 4i schedules, except that
plans in a DCG, except as otherwise provided in the annual investments in tangible personal property must continue to be
reporting regulations or the instructions below. reported as separate assets on the line 4i schedules.
Specific Instructions In the event that investments made through a
Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as participant-directed brokerage account are loans, partnership or
joint venture interests, real property, employer securities, or
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule H is
investments that could result in a loss in excess of the account
attached.
balance of the participant or beneficiary who directed the
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an
transaction, such assets must be broken out and treated as
EIN. The Schedule H and its attachments are open to public
separate assets on the applicable asset and liability categories
inspection, and the contents are public information and are
in Part I, income and expense categories in Part II, and on the
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
line 4i schedules. The remaining assets in the participant-
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any
directed brokerage account may be reported in the aggregate
portion thereof on this Schedule H or any of its attachments may
as set forth in paragraph 2 above.
result in the rejection of the filing.
Columns (a) and (b). Enter the current value on each line as of
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
the beginning and end of the plan year.
mail depending on how soon you need to use the
EIN. For more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Note. Amounts reported in column (a) must be the same as
reported for the end of the plan year for corresponding line
Requirement under General Instructions to Form 5500. The
items of the return/report for the preceding plan year. Do not
EBSA does not issue EINs.
include contributions designated for the 2025 plan year in
Part I – Asset and Liability Statement
column (a).
Note. The cash, modified cash, or accrual basis may be used
Line 1a. Total noninterest bearing cash includes, among other
for recognition of transactions in Parts I and II, as long as you
things, cash on hand or cash in a noninterest bearing checking
use one method consistently. Round off all amounts reported
account.
on the Schedule H to the nearest dollar. Any other amounts are
Line 1b(1). Noncash basis filers must include contributions due
subject to rejection. Check all subtotals and totals carefully.
the plan by the employer but not yet paid. Do not include other
If the assets of two or more plans are maintained in a fund or
amounts due from the employer such as the reimbursement of
account that is not a DFE, a registered investment company, or
an expense or the repayment of a loan.
the general account of an insurance company under an
Line 1b(2). Noncash basis filers must include contributions
unallocated contract (see the instructions for lines 1c(9) through
withheld by the employer from participants and amounts due
1c(14)), complete Parts I and II of the Schedule H by entering
directly from participants that have not yet been received by the
the plan’s allocable part of each line item.
plan. Do not include the repayment of participant loans.
Exception. When completing Part II of the Schedule H for a
Line 1b(3). Noncash basis filers must include amounts due to
plan or DFE that participates in a CCT or PSA for which a Form
the plan that are not includable in lines 1b(1) or 1b(2). These
5500 has not been filed, do not allocate the income of the CCT
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -43-

amounts may include investment income earned but not yet 1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a
received by the plan and other amounts due to the plan such as directed investment solely of the participant’s individual account;
amounts due from the employer or another plan for expense and
reimbursement or from a participant for the repayment of an 2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not
overpayment of benefits. continuing repayment under the loan.
Line 1c(1). Include all assets that earn interest in a financial If both of these circumstances apply, report the loan as a
institution account such as interest bearing checking accounts, deemed distribution on line 2g. However, if either of these
passbook savings accounts, or in money market accounts. circumstances does not apply, the current value of the
participant loan (including interest accruing thereon after the
Line 1c(2). Include securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S.
deemed distribution) must be included in column (b) without
Government or its designated agencies such as U.S. Savings
regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
Bonds, Treasury Bonds, Treasury Bills, FNMA, and GNMA.
Line 1c(3). Include investment securities (other than employer Note. After a participant loan that has been deemed distributed
securities defined below in line 1d(1)) issued by a corporate is reported on line 2g, it is no longer to be reported as an asset
entity at a stated interest rate repayable on a particular future on Schedule H or Schedule I unless, in a later year, the
date such as most bonds, debentures, convertible debentures, participant resumes repayment under the loan. However, such a
loan (including interest accruing thereon after the deemed
commercial paper and zero coupon bonds. Do not include debt
distribution) that has not been repaid is still considered
securities of governmental units that should be reported on line
outstanding for purposes of applying Code section 72(p)(2)(A)
1c(2) or 1c(15).
to determine the maximum amount of subsequent loans. Also,
‘‘Preferred’’ means any of the above securities that are
the deemed distribution is not treated as an actual distribution
publicly traded on a recognized securities exchange and the
for other purposes, such as the qualification requirements of
securities have a rating of ‘‘A’’ or above. If the securities are not
Code section 401, including, for example, the determination of
‘‘Preferred,’’ they are listed as ‘‘Other.’’
top-heavy status under Code section 416 and the vesting
Line 1c(4)(A). Include stock issued by corporations (other than requirements of Treasury Regulations section 1.411(a)-7(d)(5).
employer securities defined in line 1d(1) below) which is See Q&As 12 and 19 of Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1.
accompanied by preferential rights such as the right to share in
The entry on line 1c(8), column (b), of Schedule H
distributions of earnings at a higher rate or which has general
(participant loans - end of year) or on line 1a, column (b), of
priority over the common stock of the same entity. Include the
Schedule I (plan assets - end of year) must include the current
value of warrants convertible into preferred stock.
value of any participant loan that was reported as a deemed
Line 1c(4)(B). Include any stock (other than employer securities distribution on line 2g for any earlier year if the participant
defined in line 1d(1)) that represents regular ownership of the resumes repayment under the loan during the plan year. In
corporation and is not accompanied by preferential rights. addition, the amount to be entered on line 2g must be reduced
Include the value of warrants convertible into common stock. by the amount of the participant loan that was reported as a
Line 1c(5). Include the value of the plan’s participation in a deemed distribution on line 2g for the earlier year.
partnership or joint venture if the underlying assets of the Lines 1c(9), (10), (11), and (12). Enter the total current value of
partnership or joint venture are not considered to be plan assets the plan’s or DFE’s interest in DFEs on the appropriate lines as
under 29 CFR 2510.3-101. Do not include the value of a plan’s of the beginning and end of the plan or DFE year. The value of
interest in a partnership or joint venture that is a 103-12 the plan’s or DFE’s interest in each DFE at the end of the plan
Investment Entity (103-12 IE). Include the value of a 103-12 IE or DFE year must be reported on the Schedule D (Form 5500).
in line 1c(12).
The plan’s or DFE’s interest in common/collective trusts
Line 1c(6). Include the current value of both income and non- (CCTs) and pooled separate accounts (PSAs) for which a
income producing real property owned by the plan. Do not DFE Form 5500 has not been filed may not be included on lines
include the value of property that is employer real property or 1c(9) or 1c(10). The plan’s or DFE’s interest in the underlying
property used in plan operations that must be reported on lines assets of such CCTs and PSAs must be allocated and reported
1d and 1e, respectively. in the appropriate categories on a line-by-line basis on Part I of
Line 1c(7). Enter the current value of all loans made by the the Schedule H.
plan, except participant loans reportable on line 1c(8). Include Note. For reporting purposes, a separate account that is not
the sum of the value of loans for construction, securities loans, considered to be holding plan assets under 29 CFR 2510.3-
commercial and/or residential mortgage loans that are not 101(h)(1)(iii) does not constitute a PSA.
subject to Code section 72(p) (either by making or participating
Line 1c(13). A registered investment company is an investment
in the loans directly or by purchasing loans originated by a third
company registered under the Investment Company Act of
party), and other miscellaneous loans.
1940. These are mutual funds (legally known as open-end
Line 1c(8). Enter the current value of all loans to participants companies), closed-end funds (legally known as closed-end
including residential mortgage loans that are subject to Code companies), and UITs (legally known as unit investment trusts).
section 72(p). Include the sum of the value of the unpaid
Line 1c(14). Use the same method for determining the value of
principal balances, plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any, for
the insurance contracts reported here as you used for line 4 of
participant loans made under an individual account plan with
Schedule A, or, if line 4 is not required, line 7 of Schedule A.
investment experience segregated for each account, that are
Line 1c(15). Include all other investments not includable in lines
made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and secured
1c(1) through (14), such as options, index futures, state and
solely by a portion of the participant’s vested accrued benefit.
municipal securities, collectibles, and other personal property.
When applicable, combine this amount with the current value of
any other participant loans. Do not include in column (b) a Line 1d(1). An employer security is any security issued by an
employer (including affiliates) of employees covered by the plan.
participant loan that has been deemed distributed during the
plan year under the provisions of Code section 72(p) and These may include common stocks, preferred stocks, bonds,
Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1, if both of the following zero coupon bonds, debentures, convertible debentures, notes
circumstances apply: and commercial paper.
-44- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

Line 1d(2). The term ‘‘employer real property’’ means real Line 2b(1)(C). Generally, this is the interest earned on
property (and related personal property) that is leased to an securities that are reported on lines 1c(3)(A) and (B) and 1d(1).
employer of employees covered by the plan, or to an affiliate of
Line 2b(2). Generally, the dividends are for investments
such employer. For purposes of determining the time at which a reported on lines 1c(4)(A) and (B), 1c(13), and 1d(1). For
plan acquires employer real property for purposes of this line, accrual basis plans, include any dividends declared for stock
such property shall be deemed to be acquired by the plan on held on the date of record, but not yet received as of the end of
the date on which the plan acquires the property or on the date the plan year.
on which the lease to the employer (or affiliate) is entered into,
Line 2b(3). Generally, rents represent the income earned on the
whichever is later.
real property that is reported in lines 1c(6) and 1d(2). Enter
Line 1e. Include the current (not book) value of the buildings rents as a ‘‘Net’’ figure. Net rents are determined by taking the
and other property used in the operation of the plan. Buildings
total rent received and subtracting all expenses directly
or other property held as plan investments should be reported in
associated with the property. If the real property is jointly used
1c(6) and 1d(2).
as income producing property and for the operation of the plan,
Do not include the value of future pension payments on lines net that portion of the expenses attributable to the income
1g, h, i, j, or k. producing portion of the property against the total rents
received.
Line 1g. Noncash basis plans must include the total amount of
benefit claims that have been processed and approved for Line 2b(4). Enter in column (b), the total of net gain (loss) on
payment by the plan. Include welfare plan ‘‘incurred but not sale of assets. This equals the sum of the net realized gain (or
reported’’ (IBNR) benefit claims on this line. loss) on each asset held at the beginning of the plan year which
was sold or exchanged during the plan year, and on each asset
Line 1h. Noncash basis plans must include the total amount of
that was both acquired and disposed of within the plan year.
obligations owed by the plan which were incurred in the normal
operations of the plan and have been approved for payment by Note. As current value reporting is required for the Form 5500,
the plan but have not been paid. assets are revalued to current value at the end of the plan year.
For purposes of this form, the increase or decrease in the value
Line 1i. ‘‘Acquisition indebtedness,’’ for debt-financed property
of assets since the beginning of the plan year (if held on the first
other than real property, means the outstanding amount of the
day of the plan year) or their acquisition date (if purchased
principal debt incurred:
during the plan year) is reported in line 2b(5) below, with two
1. By the organization in acquiring or improving the
exceptions: (1) the realized gain (or loss) on each asset that
property;
was disposed of during the plan year is reported in line 2b(4)
2. Before the acquisition or improvement of the property if
(NOT on line 2b(5)), and (2) the net investment gain (or loss)
the debt was incurred only to acquire or improve the property; or
from CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, 103-12 IEs, and registered
3. After the acquisition or improvement of the property if the
investment companies is reported in lines 2b(6) through (10).
debt was incurred only to acquire or improve the property and
was reasonably foreseeable at the time of such acquisition or The sum of the realized gain (or loss) of assets sold or
improvement. For further explanation, see Code section 514(c). exchanged during the plan year is to be calculated as follows:
1. Enter in line 2b(4)(A), column (a), the sum of the amount
Line 1j. Noncash basis plans must include amounts owed for
received for these former assets;
any liabilities that would not be classified as benefit claims
2. Enter in line 2b(4)(B), column (a), the sum of the current
payable, operating payables, or acquisition indebtedness.
value of these former assets as of the beginning of the plan year
Line 1l. Enter the net assets as of the beginning and end of the
and the purchase price for assets both acquired and disposed of
plan year (Subtract line 1k from line 1f.) The entry in column (b)
during the plan year; and
must equal the sum of the entry in column (a) plus lines 2k and
3. Enter in 2b(4) (C), column (b), the result obtained when
2l(1), minus 2l(2).
2b(4)(B) is subtracted from 2b(4)(A). If entering a negative
Part II – Income and Expense Statement number, enter a minus sign “–” to the left of the number.
Line 2a. Include the total cash contributions received and/or (for Note. Bond write-offs should be reported as realized losses.
accrual basis plans) due to be received.
Line 2b(5). Subtract the current value of assets at the beginning
Note. Plans using the accrual basis of accounting should not of the year plus the cost of any assets acquired during the plan
include contributions designated for years before the 2025 plan year from the current value of assets at the end of the year to
year on line 2a. obtain this figure. If entering a negative number, enter a minus
Line 2a(1)(B). For welfare plans, report all employee sign “–” to the left of the number. Do not include the value of
contributions, including all elective contributions under a assets reportable in lines 2b(4) and 2b(6) through 2b(10).
cafeteria plan (Code section 125). For pension benefit plans, Lines 2b(6), (7), (8), and (9). Report all earnings, expenses,
participant contributions, for purposes of this item, also include gains or losses, and unrealized appreciation or depreciation
elective contributions under a qualified cash or deferred included in computing the net investment gain (or loss) from all
arrangement (Code section 401(k)). CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and 103-12 IEs here. If some plan funds
are held in any of these entities and other plan funds are held in
Line 2a(2). Use the current value, at date contributed, of
other funding media, complete all applicable subitems of line 2
securities or other noncash property.
to report plan earnings and expenses relating to the other
Line 2b(1)(A). Enter interest earned on interest-bearing cash,
funding media. The net investment gain (or loss) allocated to the
including earnings from sweep accounts, STIF accounts, money
plan for the plan year from the plan’s investment in these
market accounts, certificates of deposit, etc. This is the interest
entities is equal to:
earned on the investments reported on line 1c(1).
1. The sum of the current value of the plan’s interest in each
Line 2b(1)(B). Enter interest earned on U.S. Government
entity at the end of the plan year,
Securities. This is the interest earned on the investments
2. Minus the current value of the plan’s interest in each entity
reported on line 1c(2).
at the beginning of the plan year,
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -45-

3. Plus any amounts transferred out of each entity by the must then be included in line 1c(8), column (b), of Schedule H
plan during the plan year, and (participant loans - end of year) or in line 1a, column (b), of
4. Minus any amounts transferred into each entity by the Schedule I (plan assets - end of year).
plan during the plan year. Although certain participant loans deemed distributed are to
Enter the net gain as a positive number or the net loss as a be reported on line 2g of the Schedule H or Schedule I, and are
negative number. not to be reported on the Schedule H or Schedule I as an asset
thereafter (unless the participant resumes repayment under the
Note. Enter the combined net investment gain or loss from all
loan in a later year), they are still considered outstanding loans
CCTs and PSAs, regardless of whether a DFE Form 5500 was
and are not treated as actual distributions for certain purposes.
filed for the CCTs and PSAs.
See Q&As 12 and 19 of Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1.
Line 2b(10). Enter net investment gain (loss) from registered
investment companies here. Compute in the same manner as Line 2h. Interest expense is a monetary charge for the use of
discussed above for lines 2b(6) through (9), except do not money borrowed by the plan. This amount should include the
include dividends reported on line 2b(2)(C). total of interest paid or to be paid (for accrual basis plans)
during the plan year.
Line 2c. Include all other plan income earned that is not included
in line 2a or 2b. Do not include transfers from other plans that Line 2i. Report all administrative expenses (by specified
category) paid by or charged to the plan, including those that
should be reported in line 2l.
were not subtracted from the gross income of CCTs, PSAs,
Line 2e(1). Include the current value of all cash, securities, or
MTIAs, and 103-12 IEs in determining their net investment
other property at the date of distribution. Include all eligible
gain(s) or loss(es). Expenses incurred in the general operations
rollover distributions as defined in Code section 401(a)(31)(D)
of the plan are classified as administrative expenses.
paid at the participant’s election to an eligible retirement plan
(including an IRA within the meaning of section 401(a)(31)(E)). Include, in the appropriate categories in lines 2i(1)-(11), the
total fees paid (or in the case of accrual basis plans, costs
Line 2e(2). Include payments to insurance companies and
incurred during the plan year but not paid as of the end of the
similar organizations such as Blue Cross Blue Shield, and
plan year) by the plan for plan salaries and allowances, contract
health maintenance organizations for the provision of plan
administrator fees, recordkeeping fees, investment advisory and
benefits (e.g., paid-up annuities, accident insurance, health
investment management fees, IQPA audit fees, bank or trust
insurance, vision care, dental coverage, stop-loss insurance
company trustee/custodial fees, actuarial fees, legal fees,
whose claims are paid to the plan (or which is otherwise an
valuation/appraisal services, other trustee fees, and other
asset of the plan)), etc.
expenses.
Line 2e(3). Include all payments made to other organizations
Line 2i(1). Report total salaries and allowances for plan
or individuals providing benefits. Generally, these are individual
employees in line 2i(1). Include plan expenditures such as
providers of welfare benefits such as legal services, day care
salaries, other compensation, and allowances and employee
services, training, and apprenticeship services.
benefits (e.g., payment of premiums to provide health insurance
Line 2f. Include on this line all distributions paid during the benefits to plan employees). Amounts paid to plan employees to
plan year of excess deferrals under Code section perform recordkeeping/bookkeeping/ accounting and similar
402(g)(2)(A)(ii), excess contributions under Code section functions should be included in line 2i(1).
401(k)(8), and excess aggregate contributions under Code
Line 2i(2). Enter the total fees paid (or in the case of accrual
section 401(m)(6). Include allocable income distributed. Also
basis plans, costs incurred during the plan year but not paid as
include on this line any elective deferrals and employee
of the end of the plan year) to a contract administrator for
contributions distributed or returned to employees during the
performing administrative services for the plan. For purposes of
plan year, as well as any attributable income that was also
the return/report, a contract administrator is any individual,
distributed.
partnership, or corporation, responsible for managing the
Line 2g. Report on line 2g a participant loan that has been clerical operations (e.g., handling membership rosters, claims
deemed distributed during the plan year under the provisions of payments, maintaining books and records) of the plan on a
Code section 72(p) and Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1 contractual basis. Do not include salaried staff or employees of
only if both of the following circumstances apply: the plan or banks or insurance carriers.
1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a Line 2i(3). Include fees for recordkeeping services and other
directed investment solely of the participant’s individual account; accounting fees, such as for payroll audits and other audit fees,
and paid by the plan. Do not include in line 2i(3) amounts paid to a
2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not contract administrator that should be included in line 2i(2) or an
continuing repayment under the loan. IQPA for annual audit and related activities that should be
If either of these circumstances does not apply, a deemed included in line 2i(4).
distribution of a participant loan should not be reported on line Line 2i(4). Enter in line 2i(4) fees paid to an independent
2g. Instead, the current value of the participant loan (including qualified public accountant (IQPA) for the annual audit of the
interest accruing thereon after the deemed distribution) must be plan and related activities.
included on line 1c(8), column (b) (participant loans – end of
Line 2i(5). Enter the total fees paid to an individual, partnership
year), without regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
or corporation (or other person) for advice to the plan relating to
Note. The amount to be reported on line 2g of Schedule H or its investment portfolio. These may include fees paid to manage
Schedule I must be reduced if, during the plan year, a the plan’s investments, fees for specific advice on a particular
participant resumes repayment under a participant loan reported investment, and fees for the evaluation for the plan’s investment
as a deemed distribution on line 2g for any earlier year. The performance.
amount of the required reduction is the amount of the participant
loan reported as a deemed distribution on line 2g for the earlier
year. If entering a negative number, enter a minus sign “ – ” to
the left of the number. The current value of the participant loan
-46- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

Line 2i(6). Include bank or trust company trustee/custodial fees. Opinion information must be completed on each plan’s
Schedule DCG. The IQPA report for each plan must be
Line 2i(7). Include fees for actuarial services rendered to the
attached to the Schedule DCG unless the plan is eligible for the
plan, including preparation of Schedules MB or SB, as
applicable. waiver of the annual examination and report of an IQPA under
29 CFR 2520.104-46. See instructions for Part VII of Schedule
Line 2i(8). Include payments to a lawyer for rendering legal
DCG.
opinions, litigation, and advice and other legal services to the
plan (but not for providing legal services as a benefit to plan Notes. (1) The Auditing Standards Board’s Statement on
Auditing Standards (SAS) 136, Forming an Opinion and
participants).
Reporting on Financial Statements of Employee Benefit Plans
Line 2i(9). Include the fee(s) for valuations or appraisals to
Subject to ERISA, addresses the IQPA’s responsibility to form
determine the cost, quality, or value of an item such as real
an opinion on the financial statements of employee benefit plans
property or personal property (gemstones, coins, etc.), and for
subject to ERISA. SAS 136 also addresses the form and
valuations of closely held securities for which there is no ready
content of the auditor’s report issued as a result of an audit of
market.
an ERISA plan’s financial statements. The SAS applies to audits
Line 2i(10). Include the total fees and expenses paid to or on of single-employer, multiple-employer, and multiemployer plans
behalf of plan trustees other than bank or trust company fees subject to ERISA. An IQPA Report generally consists of an
reported on line 2i(6). Include direct payment by the plan or Accountant’s Opinion, the plan or DFE Financial Statements,
reimbursement by the plan to trustees of expenses associated Notes to the Financial Statements, and Supplemental
with trustees such as lost time, seminars, travel, meetings, Schedules.
educational conferences, etc.
29 CFR 2520.103-1(b) requires that any separate financial
Line 2i(11). Enter the total other expenses. Other expenses are statements prepared in order for the IQPA to form the opinion
those that cannot be associated definitely with lines 2i(1) and notes to these financial statements must be attached to the
through 2i(10). These may include expenses for office supplies Form 5500. Any separate statements must include the
and equipment, cars, telephone, postage, rent, expenses information required to be disclosed in Parts I and II of the
associated with the ownership of a building used in the Schedule H; however, they may be aggregated into categories
operation of the plan, and all miscellaneous expenses. Include in a manner other than that used on the Schedule H. The
premium payments to PBGC when paid from plan assets. separate statements must consist of reproductions of Parts I
Line 2i(12). Add all administrative expense amounts in lines and II or statements incorporating by reference Parts I and II.
2i(1) through (11) and enter the total in column (b). See ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A), and the DOL regulations 29
CFR 2520.103-1(a)(2) and (b), 2520.103-2, and 2520.104-50.
Line 2j. Add all expense amounts in column (b) and enter the
total in column (b). (2) Delinquent participant contributions reported on line 4a
should be treated as part of the separate schedules referenced
Line 2l. Include in these reconciliation figures the value of all
in ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A) and 29 CFR 2520.103-1(b) and
transfers of assets or liabilities into or out of the plan resulting
2520.103-2(b) for purposes of preparing the IQPA’s opinion
from, among other things, mergers and consolidations. A
described on line 3 even though they are no longer required to
transfer of assets or liabilities occurs when there is a reduction
be listed on Part III of the Schedule G. If the information
of assets or liabilities with respect to one plan and the receipt of
contained on line 4a is not presented in accordance with
these assets or the assumption of these liabilities by another
regulatory requirements, i.e., when the IQPA concludes that the
plan. A transfer is not a shifting of one plan’s assets or liabilities
scheduled information required by line 4a does not contain all
from one investment to another. A transfer is not a distribution of
the required information or contains information that is
all or part of an individual participant’s account balance that is
inaccurate or is inconsistent with the plan’s financial statements,
reportable on IRS Form 1099-R, Distributions From Pensions,
the IQPA report must make the appropriate disclosures in
Annuities, Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Contracts, etc., (see the instructions for line 2e). Transfers out
Delinquent participant contributions that are exempt because
at the end of the year should be reported as occurring during
they satisfy the DOL’s Voluntary Fiduciary Correction Program
the plan year.
(VFCP) requirements and the conditions of prohibited
Note. If this Schedule H is filed for a CCT, PSA, MTIA, or 103- transaction exemption (PTE) 2002-51 do not need to be treated
12 IE, report the value of all asset transfers to the CCT, PSA, as part of the schedule of nonexempt party-in-interest
MTIA, or 103-12 IE, including those resulting from contributions transactions.
to participating plans on line 2l(1), and report the total value of
If the required IQPA’s report is not attached to the Form
all assets transferred out of the CCT, PSA, MTIA, or 103-12 IE,
5500, the filing is subject to rejection as incomplete and
including assets withdrawn for disbursement as benefit
penalties may be assessed.
payments by participating plans, on line 2l(2). Contributions and
benefit payments are considered to be made to/by the plan (not Lines 3a(1) through 3a(4). These boxes identify the type of
to/by a CCT, PSA, MTIA, or 103-12 IE). opinion offered by the IQPA.
Part III – Accountant’s Opinion The Plan Administrator should confirm with their IQPA
whether the opinion was an unmodified, qualified,
Line 3. The administrator of an employee benefit plan who files
disclaimer of, or adverse opinion before answering line 3a.
a Schedule H generally must engage an Independent Qualified
Public Accountant (IQPA) under ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A) Line 3a(1). Check if an unmodified opinion was issued under
SAS 136. Generally, an unmodified opinion is issued when the
and 29 CFR 2520.103-1(b). This requirement also applies to a
IQPA concludes that the plan’s financial statements are
Form 5500 filed for a 103-12 IE and for a GIA (see 29 CFR
presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the
2520.103-12 and 29 CFR 2520.103-2). The IQPA’s report must
applicable financial reporting framework (generally accepted
be attached to the Form 5500 when a Schedule H is attached
accounting principles (GAAP) or another basis such as modified
unless line 3d(1) or 3d(2) on the Schedule H is checked. For
cash or cash basis). This also includes the form of opinion that
DCGs, the IQPA requirements are determined at the plan level
SAS 136 permits an IQPA to issue when the IQPA has
for each plan participating in the DCG. The Accountant’s
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -47-

performed an ERISA section 103(a)(3)(C) audit under 29 CFR months or fewer. The Form 5500 for the first of the two (2) years
2520.103-8 or 29 CFR 2520.103-12, or both, and had no must be complete and accurate, with all required attachments,
modifications. except for the IQPA’s report, including an attachment explaining
Under 29 CFR 2520.103-8, the examination and report of an why one of the two (2) plan years is of seven (7) or fewer
IQPA does not need to extend to statements or information months duration and stating that the annual report for the
regarding assets held by a bank, similar institution, or insurance immediately following plan year will include a report of an IQPA
carrier that is regulated and supervised and subject to periodic with respect to the financial statements and accompanying
schedules for both of the two (2) plan years. The Form 5500 for
examination by a state or federal agency provided that the
statements or information are prepared by and certified to by the the second year must include: (a) financial schedules and
bank or similar institution or the insurance carrier. The term statements for both plan years; (b) a report of an IQPA with
respect to the financial schedules and statements for each of
‘‘similar institution’’ as used here does not extend to securities
the two (2) plan years (regardless of the number of participants
brokerage firms (see DOL Advisory Opinion 93-21A). Under 29
CFR 2520.103-12, an audit of an employee benefit plan does covered at the beginning of each plan year); and (c) a statement
identifying any material differences between the unaudited
not need extend to the investments in a pooled investment fund
financial information submitted with the first Form 5500 and the
that files a separate audited Form 5500 as a 103-12 IE. For
audited financial information submitted with the second Form
more information on filing requirements for 103-12 IEs, See
5500. See 29 CFR 2520.104-50.
Section 4: What to File. Neither of these regulations exempt the
plan administrator from engaging an IQPA nor from attaching Note. Do not check the box on line 3d(2) if the Form 5500 is
the IQPA’s report to the Form 5500. filed for a 103-12 IE or a GIA. A deferral of the IQPA’s opinion is
not permitted for a 103-12 IE or a GIA. If an “E” or “G” is entered
Line 3a(2). Check if a qualified opinion was issued. Generally,
on Form 5500, Part I, line A(4), an IQPA’s opinion must be
a qualified opinion is issued by an IQPA when (a) the IQPA,
attached to the Form 5500 and the type of opinion must be
having obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence, concludes
reported on Schedule H, line 3a.
that misstatements, individually or in the aggregate, are material
but not pervasive to the financial statements or (b) the IQPA is Part IV – Compliance Questions
unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which
Lines 4a through 4n. Plans completing Schedule H must
to base the opinion, but the auditor concludes that the possible
answer all these lines with either ‘‘Yes’’ or ‘‘No.’’ Do not leave
effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements,
any answer blank, unless otherwise directed. For lines 4a
if any, could be material but not pervasive.
through 4h and line 4l, if the answer is “Yes,” an amount must
Line 3a(3). Check if a disclaimer of opinion was issued. A be entered.
disclaimer of opinion is issued when the IQPA is unable to
Report investments in CCTs, PSAs, MTIAs, and 103-12 IEs,
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the
but not the investments made by these entities. Plans with all of
opinion, and the IQPA concludes that the possible effects on the
their funds held in a master trust should check ‘‘No’’ on line 4b,
financial statements of undetected misstatements, if any, could
4c, 4i, and 4j. CCTs and PSAs do not complete Part IV. MTIAs,
be both material and pervasive.
103-12 IEs, and GIAs do not complete lines 4a, 4e, 4f, 4g, 4h,
Line 3a(4). Check if the plan received an adverse accountant’s 4k, 4m, or 4n. 103-12 IEs also do not complete line 4j and 4l.
opinion. Generally, an adverse opinion is issued by an IQPA MTIAs also do not complete line 4l. DCGs do not complete lines
when the IQPA having obtained sufficient appropriate audit 4e, 4f, 4k, or 4l, and generally complete the rest of Part IV
evidence, concludes that misstatements, individually or in the information on a consolidated basis for all individual plans in the
aggregate, are both material and pervasive to the financial DCGs, except as otherwise provided.
statements.
Line 4a. Amounts paid by a participant or beneficiary to an
Line 3b. Check “DOL Regulation 2520.103-8” or “DOL employer and/or withheld by an employer for contribution to the
Regulation 2520.103-12(d)” (or both boxes, if applicable) if the plan are participant contributions that become plan assets as of
IQPA performed an ERISA Section 103(a)(3)(C) audit of the the earliest date on which such contributions can reasonably be
plan’s financial statements under DOL regulations 29 CFR segregated from the employer’s general assets (see 29 CFR
2520.103-8, 29 CFR 2520.103-12(d), or under both. If it was not 2510.3-102). Plans that check “Yes” must enter the aggregate
performed under 29 CFR 2520.103-8 or 29 CFR 2520 103- amount of all late contributions for the year. The total amount of
12(d), check box (3). the delinquent contributions should be included on line 4a of the
Note. These regulations do not exempt the plan administrator Schedule H or I, as applicable, for the year in which the
from engaging an IQPA or from attaching the IQPA’s report to contributions were delinquent and should be carried over and
the Form 5500. If you check box 103-8 or 103-12(d) or both, you reported again on line 4a of the Schedule H or I, as applicable,
must also check the appropriate box on line 3a to identify the for each subsequent year until the year after the violation has
type of opinion offered by the IQPA. been fully corrected, which correction includes payment of the
late contributions and reimbursement of the plan for lost
Line 3c. Enter the name and EIN of the accountant (or
earnings or profits. If no participant contributions were received
accounting firm) in the space provided on line 3c. Do not use a
or withheld by the employer during the plan year, answer “No.”
social security number or any portion thereof in lieu of an EIN.
The Schedule H is open to public inspection, and the contents The last plan year to include a delinquent participant
are public information and are subject to publication on the contribution on Form 5500, Schedule H, Line 4a, and
Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a social accompanying schedule attachment, is the plan year in which
security number or any portion thereof on this Schedule H may the violation has been fully corrected. For example, a plan is
result in the rejection of the filing. first delinquent on a particular participant contribution during
plan year 2022. This delinquent participant contribution is
Line 3d(1). Check this box only if the Schedule H is being filed
discovered in plan year 2023 and fully corrected in plan year
for a CCT, PSA, DCG or MTIA.
2023. The plan’s 2022 Form 5500, Schedule H, Line 4a
Line 3d(2). Check this box if the plan has elected to defer reporting must include the delinquent participant contribution.
attaching the IQPA’s opinion for the first of two (2) consecutive The plan’s 2023 Form 5500, Schedule H, Line 4a reporting must
plan years, one of which is a short plan year of seven (7) include the delinquent contribution because although it is fully
-48- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

corrected, it was delinquent within that 2023 reporting period. pension and welfare plans), and acceptable methods for
The plan’s 2024 Form 5500 does not include the delinquent correcting violations. In addition, applicants that satisfy both the
participant contribution that originated in the 2022 plan year, but VFCP requirements and the conditions of PTE 2002-51 are
is fully corrected in 2023, because the delinquency that began in eligible for immediate relief from payment of certain prohibited
plan year 2022 is no longer delinquent at any time within the transaction excise taxes for certain corrected transactions, and
2024 plan year. are also relieved from the obligation to file the IRS Form 5330
An employer holding these assets after that date commingled with the IRS. For more information, see 90 Fed. Reg. 4192 (Jan.
15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15, 2025). Information
with its general assets will have engaged in a prohibited use of
about the VFCP is also available on the Internet at
plan assets (see ERISA section 406). If such a nonexempt
www.dol.gov/ebsa.
prohibited transaction occurred with respect to a disqualified
person (see Code section 4975(e)(2)), file IRS Form 5330, Line 4a Schedule. Attach a Schedule of Delinquent
Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans, with Participant Contributions using the format below if you entered
the IRS to pay any applicable excise tax on the transaction. “Yes.” If you chose to include participant loan repayments on
line 4a, you must apply the same supplemental schedule and
Participant loan repayments paid to and/or withheld by an
IQPA disclosure requirements to the loan repayments as
employer for purposes of transmittal to the plan that were not
transmitted to the plan in a timely fashion must be reported applied to delinquent transmittals of participant contributions.
either on line 4a in accordance with the reporting requirements
that apply to delinquent participant contributions or on line 4d.
See Advisory Opinion 2002-02A, available at Schedule H Line 4a –Schedule of Delinquent
www.dol.gov/ebsa. Participant Contributions
Participant Total that Constitutes Nonexempt Total Fully
Delinquent participant contributions reported on line 4a Contributions Prohibited Transactions Corrected
should be treated as part of the separate schedules referenced Transferred Under
in ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A) and 29 CFR 2520.103-1(b) and Late to Plan VFCP and
2520.103-2(b) for purposes of preparing the IQPA’s opinion PTE 2002-
Check here if Contributions C ontributions Contributions
described on line 3 even though they are no longer required to Late Not Corrected Pending 51
be listed on Part III of the Schedule G. If the information Participant Corrected Outside Correction in
contained on line 4a is not presented in accordance with Loan VFCP VFCP
regulatory requirements, i.e., when the IQPA concludes that the Repayments
scheduled information required by line 4a does not contain all are included:
the required information or contains information that is
inaccurate or is inconsistent with the plan’s financial statements, Line 4b. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount and
the IQPA report must make the appropriate disclosures in complete Part I of Schedule G. The due date, payment amount
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. For and conditions for determining default of a note or loan are
more information, see EBSA’s Frequently Asked Questions usually contained in the documents establishing the note or
About Reporting Delinquent Contributions on the Form 5500, loan. A loan by the plan is in default when the borrower is
available on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa. These unable to pay the obligation upon maturity. Obligations that
Frequently Asked Questions clarify that plans have an obligation require periodic repayment can default at any time. Generally,
to include delinquent participant contributions on their financial loans and fixed income obligations are considered uncollectible
statements and supplemental schedules and that the IQPA’s when payment has not been made and there is little probability
report covers such delinquent contributions even though they that payment will be made. A fixed income obligation has a fixed
are not required to be included on Part III of the Schedule G. maturity date at a specified interest rate. Do not include
Although all delinquent participant contributions must be participant loans made under an individual account plan with
reported on line 4a, delinquent contributions for which the DOL investment experience segregated for each account that were
VFCP requirements and the conditions of PTE 2002-51 have made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and secured
been satisfied do not need to be treated as nonexempt party-in- solely by a portion of the participant’s vested accrued benefit.
interest transactions. DCGs must identify the plans involved on the Schedule G. See
For DCGs, answer “yes” if any plan in a DCG is required to the instructions for the Schedule G for more information.
report delinquent participant contributions on the Schedule DCG Line 4c. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount and
for the plan, and report the total amount reported by all such complete Part II of Schedule G. A lease is an agreement
plans on line 4a. DCGs do not need to file a consolidated conveying the right to use property, plant, or equipment for a
Schedule H Line 4a-Schedule of Delinquent Participant stated period. A lease is in default when the required
Contributions for a DCG. However, plans participating in a DCG payment(s) has not been made. An uncollectible lease is one
must report delinquent participant contribution information on where the required payments have not been made and for
the plan’s Schedule DCG and the Schedule DCG Line 9a- which there is little probability that payment will be made. DCGs
Schedule of Delinquent Participant Contributions must be must identify the plans involved on the Schedule G. See the
attached to the Schedule DCG for each plan that is subject to instructions for the Schedule G for more information.
an IQPA audit. As described above, the Schedule should be
Line 4d. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount and
treated as part of the separate schedules referenced in ERISA
complete Part III of Schedule G. Check ‘‘Yes’’ if any nonexempt
section 103(a)(3)(A) and 29 CFR 2520.103-1(b) and 2520.103-
transaction with a party-in-interest occurred regardless of
2(b) for purposes of preparing the IQPA’s opinion for the plan
whether the transaction is disclosed in the IQPA’s report. Do not
that must be attached to the plan’s Schedule DCG. See
check “Yes” or complete Schedule G, Part III, with respect to
Schedule DCG for additional information.
transactions that are: (1) statutorily exempt under Part 4 of Title
All delinquent participant contributions must be reported on I of ERISA; (2) administratively exempt under ERISA section
line 4a even if violations have been corrected. The VFCP 408(a); (3) exempt under Code sections 4975(c) or 4975(d); (4)
describes how to apply, the specific transactions covered (which the holding of participant contributions in the employer’s general
transactions include delinquent participant contributions to assets for a welfare plan that meets the conditions of ERISA
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -49-

Technical Release 92-01; (5) a transaction of a 103-12 IE with the estimate was determined.
parties other than the plan; or (6) delinquent participant Willful failure to report is a criminal offense. See ERISA
contributions or delinquent participant loan repayments reported
section 501.
on line 4a. DCGs must identify the plans involved on the
Lines 4g and 4h. Current value means fair market value
Schedule G. See the instructions for the Schedule G for more
where available. Otherwise, it means the fair value as
information. Plans in a DCG must also answer this question for
determined in good faith under the terms of the plan by a trustee
their plan separately on the plan’s Schedule DCG.
or a named fiduciary, assuming an orderly liquidation at the time
Note. See the instructions for Part III of the Schedule G (Form of the determination. See ERISA section 3(26).
5500) concerning nonexempt transactions and party-in-interest.
An accurate assessment of fair market value is essential to a
You may indicate that an application for an administrative
pension plan’s ability to comply with the requirements set forth
exemption is pending. If you are unsure as to whether a
in the Code (e.g., the exclusive benefit rule of Code section
transaction is exempt or not, you should consult with either the 401(a)(2), the limitations on benefits and contributions under
plan’s IQPA or legal counsel or both. Code section 415, and the minimum funding requirements
Applicants that satisfy the VFCP requirements and the under Code section 412) and must be determined annually.
conditions of PTE 2002-51 (see the instructions for line 4a)
Examples of assets that may not have a readily determinable
are eligible for immediate relief from payment of certain
value on an established market (e.g., NYSE, AMEX, over the
prohibited transaction excise taxes for certain corrected
counter, etc.) include real estate, nonpublicly traded securities,
transactions, and are also relieved from the obligation to file the
shares in a limited partnership, and collectibles. Do not check
IRS Form 5330 with the IRS. For more information, see 90 Fed.
“Yes” on line 4g for mutual fund shares or insurance company
Reg. 4192 (Jan. 15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15,
investment contracts for which the plan receives valuation
2025). When the conditions of PTE 2002-51 have been
information at least annually. Also, do not check ‘‘Yes’’ on line
satisfied, the corrected transactions should be treated as
4g if the plan is a defined contribution plan, and the only assets
exempt under Code section 4975(c) for the purposes of
the plan holds that do not have a readily determinable value on
answering line 4d. an established market are: (1) participant loans not in default, or
Line 4e. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the aggregate (2) assets over which the participant exercises control within the
amount of fidelity bond coverage for all claims. Check ‘‘Yes’’ meaning of ERISA section 404(c).
only if the plan itself (as opposed to the plan sponsor or
Although the current value of plan assets must be determined
administrator) is a named insured under a fidelity bond from an
each year, there is no requirement that the assets (other than
approved surety covering plan officials and that protects the
certain nonpublicly traded employer securities held in ESOPs)
plan from losses due to fraud or dishonesty as described in 29
be valued every year by independent third-party appraisers.
CFR Part 2580. Generally, every plan official of an employee
Enter in the amount column the fair market value of the
benefit plan who ‘‘handles’’ funds or other property of such plan
assets referred to on line 4g whose value was not readily
must be bonded. Generally, a person shall be deemed to be
determinable on an established market and which were not
‘‘handling’’ funds or other property of a plan, so as to require
valued by an independent third-party appraiser in the plan year.
bonding, whenever their duties or activities with respect to given
funds are such that there is a risk that such funds could be lost Generally, as it relates to these questions, an appraisal by an
in the event of fraud or dishonesty on the part of such person, independent third party is an evaluation of the value of an asset
acting either alone or in collusion with others. Section 412 of prepared by an individual or firm who knows how to judge the
ERISA and 29 CFR Part 2580 describe the bonding value of such assets and does not have an ongoing relationship
requirements, including the definition of “handling” (29 CFR with the plan or plan fiduciaries except for preparing the
2580.412-6), the permissible forms of bonds (29 CFR 2580.412- appraisals.
10), the amount of the bond (29 CFR Part 2580, subpart C), and A DCG must check “Yes” on line 4g if any of the plans in the
certain exemptions such as the exemption for unfunded plans, DCG held any assets described in line 4g and “Yes” on line 4h if
certain banks and insurance companies (ERISA section 412), any of the plans in the DCG held any noncash contributions as
and the exemption allowing plan officials to purchase bonds described in line 4h. A DCG checking “Yes” must attach a list
from surety companies authorized by the Secretary of the identifying the plans holding such assets or noncash
Treasury as acceptable reinsurers on federal bonds (29 CFR contributions. The plan information reported must be the same
2580.412-23). Information concerning the list of approved as the information reported on Part III of Schedule DCG for the
sureties and reinsurers is available on the Internet at plan or plans involved. Use the format and label as shown
www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified- below.
companies.html. For more information on the fidelity bonding
The attachment for line 4g must be clearly labeled “Schedule
requirements, see Field Assistance Bulletin 2008-04, available
H, Line 4g – Plans in a DCG Holding Line 4g Assets.”
on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
Note. Plans are permitted under certain conditions to purchase
fiduciary liability insurance. These fiduciary liability insurance Plan EIN Plan Amount
policies are not written specifically to protect the plan from name Number
losses due to dishonest acts and cannot be reported as fidelity Plan EIN Plan Amount
bonds on line 4e. name Number
Line 4f. Check ‘‘Yes,’’ if the plan suffered or discovered any Plan EIN Plan Amount
loss as a result of any dishonest or fraudulent act(s) even if the name Number
loss was reimbursed by the plan’s fidelity bond or from any
other source. If ‘‘Yes’’ is checked enter the full amount of the
loss. If the full amount of the loss has not yet been determined,
provide an estimate and disclose that the figure is an estimate
as determined in good faith by a plan fiduciary. You must keep,
in accordance with ERISA section 107, records showing how
-50- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

The attachment for line 4h must be clearly labeled “Schedule 3. Bank certificates of deposit with a maturity of one
H, Line 4h – Plans in a DCG Holding Line 4h Noncash year or less.
Contributions.” 4. Commercial paper with a maturity of 9 months or
less if it is valued in the highest rating category by at least
two nationally recognized statistical rating services and is
Plan EIN Plan Amount
issued by a company required to file reports with the
name Number
Securities and Exchange Commission under section 13 of
Plan EIN Plan Amount the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
name Number 5. Participations in a bank common or collective trust.
6. Participations in an insurance company pooled
Plan EIN Plan Amount
separate account.
name Number
7. Securities purchased from a broker-dealer
registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
Line 4i. Check “Yes” if the plan had any assets held for either: (1) listed on a national securities exchange and
investment purposes, and attach a schedule of assets held for registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act
investment purposes at end of year, a schedule of assets held of 1934 or (2) quoted on NASDAQ.
for investment purposes that were both acquired and disposed
Assets held for investment purposes shall not include any
of within the plan year, or both, as applicable. The schedules
investment that was not held by the plan on the last day of the
must use the format set forth below or a similar format. See 29
plan year if that investment is reported in the annual report for
CFR 2520.103-11. A DCG must check “Yes” if any of the plans
that plan year in any of the following:
in the DCG had any assets held for investment purposes.
1. The schedule of loans or fixed income obligations in
Assets held for investment purposes shall include:
default required by Schedule G, Part I;
• Any investment asset held by the plan on the last day of the 2. The schedule of leases in default or classified as
plan year; and uncollectible required by Schedule G, Part II;
• Any investment asset purchased during the plan year and sold 3. The schedule of nonexempt transactions required by
before the end of the plan year except: Schedule G, Part III; or
4. The schedule of reportable transactions required by
1. Debt obligations of the U.S. or any U.S. agency.
Schedule H, line 4j.
2. Interests issued by a company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (e.g., a mutual fund).
Line 4i schedules. The first schedule required to be attached is a schedule of all assets held for investment purposes at the end
of the plan year, aggregated and identified by issue, maturity date, rate of interest, collateral, par or maturity value, cost and current
value, and, in the case of a loan, the payment schedule. In the case of a DCG, the DCG’s common plan administrator must attach a
consolidated Schedule of Assets for the entire DCG.
In column (a), place an asterisk (*) on the line of each identified person known to be a party-in-interest to the plan. In column
(c), include any restriction on transferability of corporate securities. (Include lending of securities permitted under Prohibited
Transactions Exemption 81-6.) A DCG must also include in column (c) the number of plans in the DCG holding the asset.
This schedule must be clearly labeled “Schedule H, line 4i – Schedule of Assets (Held At End of Year).”
(a) (b) Identity of issue, borrower, lessor, or similar (c) Description of investment including maturity date, rate of (d) Cost (e) Current
party interest, collateral, par, or maturity value value
The second schedule required to be attached is a schedule of investment assets that were both acquired and disposed of
within the plan year. A DCG must include in column (b) the name of the plan or plans holding the assets, the EIN(s) and plan
number(s). This information must be the same as the information reported on Part III of Schedule DCG for the plan or plans holding
the assets. A DCG should not include in this schedule assets transferred between plans within the DCG.
This schedule must be clearly labeled “Schedule H, line 4i – Schedule of Assets (Acquired and Disposed of Within Year).”
(a) Identity of issue, borrower, lessor, or similar party (b) Description of investment including maturity date, rate of (c) Cost of acquisitions (d) Proceeds
interest, collateral, par, or maturity value of
dispositions
In the case of DCGs, the Schedule DCG for each plan subject to the IQPA audit requirement should include a Schedule of
Assets for each such plan (see Schedule DCG for additional information).
Notes: (1) Participant loans under an individual account plan with investment experience segregated for each account, that are
made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and that are secured solely by a portion of the participant’s vested accrued benefit,
may be aggregated for reporting purposes in line 4i. Under identity of borrower enter “Participant loans,” under rate of interest
enter the lowest rate and the highest rate charged during the plan year (e.g., 8%–10%), under the cost and proceeds columns enter
zero, and under current value enter the total amount of these loans. (2) Column (d) cost information for the Schedule of Assets
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -51-

(Held At End of Year) and the column (c) cost of acquisitions information for the Schedule of Assets (Acquired and Disposed
of Within Year) may be omitted when reporting investments of an individual account plan that a participant or beneficiary directed
with respect to assets allocated to their account (including a negative election authorized under the terms of the plan). Likewise, cost
information for investments in Code sections 403(b)(1) annuity contracts and 403(b)(7) custodial accounts may also be omitted.
(3) Participant-directed brokerage account assets reported in the aggregate on line 1c(15) must be treated as one asset held for
investment for purposes of the line 4i schedules, except investments in tangible personal property must continue to be reported
as separate assets on the line 4i schedules. Investments in Code section 403(b)(1) annuity contracts and Code section 403(b)(7)
custodial accounts should also be treated as one asset held for investment for purposes on the line 4i schedules.
except as provided below, the plan’s allocable portion of the
Line 4j. Check “Yes” and attach to the Form 5500 the following
transactions of the trust shall be combined with the other
schedule if the plan had any reportable transactions. A DCG
transactions of the plan, if any, to determine which transactions
must check “Yes” if any of the plans in the DCG had any
(or series of transactions) are reportable (5%) transactions.
reportable transactions. (See 29 CFR 2520.103-6 and the
examples provided in the regulation for more information on For investments in common/collective trusts (CCTs), pooled
reportable transactions). The schedule must use the format set separate accounts (PSAs), 103-12 IEs, and registered
forth below or a similar format. See 29 CFR 2520.103-11. investment companies, determine the 5% figure by comparing
A reportable transaction includes: the transaction date value of the acquisition and/or disposition of
units of participation or shares in the entity with the current
1.A single transaction within the plan year in excess of 5% of
value of the plan assets at the beginning of the plan year. If the
the current value of the plan assets;
Schedule H is attached to a Form 5500 filed for a plan with all
2.Any series of transactions with or in conjunction with the
plan funds held in a master trust, check ‘‘No’’ on line 4j. Plans
same person, involving property other than securities, which
with assets in a master trust that have other transactions should
amount in the aggregate within the plan year (regardless of the
determine the 5% figure by subtracting the current value of plan
category of asset and the gain or loss on any transaction) to
assets held in the master trust from the current value of all plan
more than 5% of the current value of plan assets;
assets at the beginning of the plan year and check ‘‘Yes’’ or
3.Any transaction within the plan year involving securities of
“No,” as appropriate. Do not include individual transactions of
the same issue if within the plan year any series of transactions
(CCTs), (PSAs), master trust investment accounts (MTIAs),
with respect to such securities amount in the aggregate to more
103-12 IEs, and registered investment companies in which this
than 5% of the current value of the plan assets; and
plan or DFE invests.
4.Any transaction within the plan year with respect to
securities with, or in conjunction with, a person if any prior or In the case of a purchase or sale of a security on the market,
subsequent single transaction within the plan year with such do not identify the person from whom purchased or to whom
person, with respect to securities, exceeds 5% of the current sold.
value of plan assets. Special rule for certain participant-directed transactions.
The 5% figure is determined by comparing the current value Transactions under an individual account plan that a participant
of the transaction at the transaction date with the current value or beneficiary directed with respect to assets allocated to their
of the plan assets at the beginning of the plan year. If this is the account (including a negative election authorized under the
initial plan year, you may use the current value of the plan terms of the plan) should not be treated for purposes of line 4j
assets at the end of the plan year to determine the 5% figure. as reportable transactions. The current value of all assets of the
plan, including these participant-directed transactions, should be
If the assets of two or more plans are maintained in one trust,
included in determining the 5% figure for all other transaction.
Line 4j schedule. The schedule required to be attached is a schedule of reportable transactions that must be clearly labeled
“Schedule H, line 4j – Schedule of Reportable Transactions.” A DCG must include in column (b) the name of the plan or plans
with the reportable transaction(s), the EIN(s) and plan number(s). This information must be the same as the information reported on
Part III of Schedule DCG for the plan or plans involved.
(a) Identity of (b) Description of (c) (d) Selling (e) Lease (f) Expense (g) Cost (h) Current value (i) Net
party asset (include Purchase price rental incurred with of asset of asset on gain or
involved interest rate and price transaction transaction date (loss)
maturity in case of
a loan)
-52- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

Line 4k. Check “Yes” if all the plan assets (including regarding a participant’s individual account; or (4) by
insurance/annuity contracts) were distributed to the application of federal securities laws. For more information,
participants and beneficiaries, legally transferred to the control see 29 CFR 2520.101-3 (available at www.dol.gov/ebsa).
of another plan, or brought under the control of PBGC. Line 4n. If there was a blackout period, did you provide the
Check ‘‘No’’ for a welfare benefit plan that is still liable to required notice not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days in
pay benefits for claims incurred before the termination date, advance of restricting the rights of participants and
but not yet paid. See 29 CFR 2520.104b-2(g)(2)(ii). beneficiaries to change their plan investments, obtain loans
from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan? If so, check
Line 4l. You must check “Yes” if any benefits due under the
plan were not timely paid or not paid in full. This would include
“Yes.” See 29 CFR 2520.101-3 for specific notice requirements
and for exceptions from the notice requirement. Also, answer
minimum required distributions to 5% owners who have
“Yes” if one of the exceptions to the notice requirement under
attained the applicable ages as described in Code section
29 CFR 2520.101-3 applies. A DCG checking “No” must attach
401(a)(9)(C)(v) whether or not retired and/or non-5% owners
a list identifying all the plans that failed to provide the required
who have attained the applicable ages as described in Code
notice on a timely basis. The plan information reported must be
section 401(a)(9)(C)(v) and have retired or separated from
the same as the information reported on Part III of Schedule
service, see Code section 401(a)(9). Include in this amount the
total of any outstanding amounts that were not paid when due DCG for the plan or plans involved. Use the format and label
in previous years that have continued to remain unpaid. as shown below.
The attachment for line 4n must be clearly labeled
Note. In the absence of other guidance, filers do not need to
report on this line unpaid required minimum distribution (RMD) “Schedule H, Line 4n – Plans in a DCG that Failed to
amounts for participants who have retired or separated from Provide Required Blackout Notice.”
service, or their beneficiaries, who cannot be located after
reasonable efforts or where the plan is in the process of
Plan name EIN Plan Number
engaging in such reasonable efforts at the end of the plan year
Plan name EIN Plan Number
reporting period. Plan administrators and employers should
review their plan documents for written procedures on locating Plan name EIN Plan Number
missing participants. Although the Department of Labor’s Field
Assistance Bulletin 2014-01 is specifically applicable to
terminated defined contribution plans, employers and plan Line 5. MTIAs, 103-12 IEs, GIAs and DCGs do not complete
line 5.
administrators of ongoing plans may want to consider
periodically using one or more of the search methods Line 5a. Check “Yes” if a resolution to terminate the plan was
described in the FAB in connection with making reasonable adopted during this or any prior plan year, unless the
efforts to locate RMD-eligible missing participants. termination was revoked and no assets reverted to the
employer. If ‘‘Yes’’ is checked, enter the amount of plan assets
Line 4m. Check “Yes” if there was a “blackout period.” A
that reverted to the employer during the plan year in
DCG must check “Yes” if there was a “blackout period” for any
connection with the implementation of such termination. Enter
of the plans in the DCG. A DCG checking “Yes” must attach a
“0” if no reversion occurred during the current plan year.
list identifying all the plans that had a “blackout period.” The
plan information reported must be the same as the information A Form 5500 must be filed for each year the plan has
reported on Part III of Schedule DCG for the plan or plans assets, and, for a welfare benefit plan, if the plan is still
involved. Use the format and label as shown below. liable to pay benefits for claims incurred before the termination
date, but not yet paid. See 29 CFR 2520.104b-2(g)(2)(ii).
The attachment for line 4m must be clearly labeled
“Schedule H, Line 4m – Plans in a DCG that had Blackout Line 5b. Enter information concerning assets and/or liabilities
Period.” transferred from this plan to another plan(s) (including spinoffs)
during the plan year. A transfer of assets or liabilities occurs
when there is a reduction of assets or liabilities with respect to
Plan name EIN Plan Number
one plan and the receipt of these assets or the assumption of
Plan name EIN Plan Number these liabilities by another plan. Enter the name, plan sponsor
EIN, and PN for the transferee plan(s) involved on lines 5b(1),
Plan name EIN Plan Number
(2), and (3).
Do not use a social security number in lieu of an EIN or
A blackout period is a temporary suspension of more than include an attachment that contains visible social security
three (3) consecutive business days during which participants numbers. The Schedule H is open to public inspection, and the
or beneficiaries of a 401(k) or other individual account pension contents are public information and are subject to publication
plan were unable to, or were limited or restricted in their ability on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a
to, direct or diversify assets credited to their accounts, obtain
social security number or any portion thereof on this Schedule
loans from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan. A
H or the inclusion of a visible social security number or any
“blackout period” generally does not include a temporary
portion thereof on an attachment may result in the rejection of
suspension of the right of participants and beneficiaries to
the filing.
direct or diversity assets credited to their accounts, obtain
Note. A distribution of all or part of an individual participant’s
loans from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan if the
account balance that is reportable on Form 1099-R should not
temporary suspension is: (1) part of the regularly scheduled
be included on line 5b. Do not submit Form 1099-R with the
operations of the plan that has been disclosed to participants
Form 5500.
and beneficiaries; (2) due to a qualified domestic relations
order (QDRO) or because of a pending determination as to IRS Form 5310-A, Notice of Plan Merger or Consolidation,
whether a domestic relations order is a QDRO; (3) due to an Spinoff, or Transfer of Plan Assets or Liabilities; Notice of
action or a failure to take action by an individual participant or Qualified Separate Lines of Business, may be required to be
because of an action or claim by someone other than the plan filed at least 30 days before any plan merger or consolidation
Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500) -53-

or any transfer of plan assets or liabilities to another plan. If you are uncertain whether the plan is covered under the
There is a penalty for not filing IRS Form 5310-A on time. In PBGC termination insurance program, check the box “Not
addition, a transfer of benefit liabilities involving a plan covered determined” and contact PBGC either by phone at 1-800-736-
by PBGC insurance may be reportable to PBGC. See PBGC 2444, by Email at coverage@pbgc.gov. If you amended your
Form 10, Post-Event Notice of Reportable Events, and PBGC premium filing for this plan year, enter the confirmation number
Form 10-Advance, Advance Notice of Reportable Events. for that filing and not for the previous filing(s). Defined
Line 5c. Check “Yes” if the plan was covered by PBGC at any contribution plans and welfare plans do not need to complete
this item.
time during the plan year to which the Form 5500 relates and
enter the My PAA generated confirmation number for the Note: A church defined benefit pension plan that has
premium filing for that plan year reported (see filing receipt). made an election under Code section 410(d) should
“Yes” must be checked even if coverage has ceased and/or see www.pbgc.gov for the procedures prescribed by
final premiums have been paid before the Form 5500 is due. PBGC on how to notify PBGC that it wishes to have
Title IV of ERISA apply to it.
-54- Instructions for Schedule H (Form 5500)

assuming an orderly liquidation at time of the determination.
2025 Instructions for Schedule I
See ERISA section 3(26).
(Form 5500)
Part I – Small Plan Financial Information
Financial Information – Small Plan Amounts reported on lines 1a, 1b, and 1c for the beginning of
the plan year must be the same as reported for the end of the
General Instructions plan year for corresponding lines on the return/report for the
preceding plan year.
Who Must File
Do not include contributions designated for the 2025 plan
Schedule I (Form 5500) must be attached to a Form 5500 filed
year in column (a).
for pension benefit plans and welfare benefit plans that
covered fewer than 100 participants as of the beginning of the Line 1a. A plan with assets held in common/collective trusts
plan year and that are not eligible to file Form 5500-SF. (CCTs), pooled separate accounts (PSAs), master trust
investment accounts (MTIAs), and/or 103-12 IEs must also
Note. If a Schedule I or a Form 5500-SF was filed for the plan
attach Schedule D.
for the 2024 plan year and the plan covered fewer than 121
Use the same method for determining the value of the plan’s
participants as of the beginning of the 2025 plan year, the
interest in an insurance company general account (unallocated
Schedule I may be completed instead of a Schedule H.
contracts) that you used for line 4 of Schedule A, or, if line 4 is
Exception. Certain insured, unfunded or combination
not required, line 7 of Schedule A.
unfunded/insured welfare plans are exempt from filing the
Form 5500 and the Schedule I. In addition, certain fully insured Note. Do not include in column (b) a participant loan that has
pension benefit plans are exempt from completing the been deemed distributed during the plan year under the
Schedule I. See the Form 5500 instructions for Who Must File provisions of Code section 72(p) and Treasury Regulations
and Limited Pension Plan Reporting for more information. section 1.72(p)-1, if both of the following circumstances apply:
1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a
A plan that is required to file a Form M-1, Report for
directed investment solely of the participant’s individual
Multiple-Employer Welfare Arrangements (MEWAs) and
account; and
Certain Entities Claiming Exception (ECEs) is not required to
file the Schedule I if it has fewer than 100 participants at the 2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not
beginning of the plan year and meets the requirements of 29 continuing repayment under the loan.
CFR 2520.104-44. If the deemed distributed participant loan is included in
Check the Schedule I box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line column (a) and both of these circumstances apply, report the
10b(2)) if a Schedule I is attached to the Form 5500. Do not loan as a deemed distribution on line 2g. However, if either of
attach both a Schedule I and a Schedule H to the same Form these circumstances does not apply, the current value of the
5500. participant loan (including interest accruing thereon after the
deemed distribution) should be included in column (b) without
Specific Instructions
regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as After a participant loan that has been deemed distributed is
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule I is
reported on line 2g, it is no longer to be reported as an asset
attached.
on Schedule H or Schedule I unless, in a later year, the
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an participant resumes repayment under the loan. However, such
EIN. The Schedule I and its attachments are open to public a loan (including interest accruing thereon after the deemed
inspection, and the contents are public information and are distribution) that has not been repaid is still considered
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy outstanding for purposes of applying Code section 72(p)(2)(A)
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any to determine the maximum amount of subsequent loans. Also,
portion thereof on this Schedule I or any of its attachments the deemed distribution is not treated as an actual distribution
may result in the rejection of the filing. for other purposes, such as the qualification requirements of
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by Code section 401, including, for example, the determination of
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For top-heavy status under Code section 416 and the vesting
more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement requirements of Treasury Regulations section 1.411(a)-7(d)(5).
under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not See Q&As 12 and 19 of Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-
issue EINs. 1.
Note. The cash, modified cash, or accrual basis may be used The entry on line 1a, column (b), of Schedule I (plan assets
- end of year) or on line 1c(8), column (b), of Schedule H
for recognition of transactions, as long as you use one method
(participant loans - end of year) must include the current value
consistently. Round off all amounts reported on the Schedule I
of any participant loan reported as a deemed distribution on
to the nearest dollar. Any other amounts are subject to
line 2g for any earlier year if, during the plan year, the
rejection. Check all subtotals and totals carefully.
participant resumes repayment under the loan. In addition, the
If the assets of two or more plans are maintained in one
amount to be entered on line 2g must be reduced by the
fund, such as when an employer has two plans funded through
amount of the participant loan reported as a deemed
a single trust (except a DFE), complete Parts I and II by
distribution on line 2g for the earlier year.
entering the plan’s allocable part of each line item.
Line 1b. Enter the total liabilities at the beginning and end of
If assets of one plan are maintained in two or more trust
the plan year. Liabilities to be entered here do not include the
funds, report the combined financial information in Part I.
value of future pension payments to plan participants.
Current value means fair market value where available. However, the amount to be entered in line 1b for accrual basis
Otherwise, it means the fair value as determined in good faith filers includes, among other things:
under the terms of the plan by a trustee or a named fiduciary,
Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500) -55-

1. Benefit claims that have been processed and approved participants or beneficiaries, include the current value on the
for payment by the plan but have not been paid (including all date of distribution.
incurred but not reported welfare benefit claims);
Line 2f. Include on this line all distributions paid during the
2. Accounts payable obligations owed by the plan that were plan year of excess deferrals under Code section
incurred in the normal operations of the plan but have not been 402(g)(2)(A)(ii), excess contributions under Code section
paid; and 401(k)(8), and excess aggregate contributions under Code
3. Other liabilities such as acquisition indebtedness and section 401(m)(6). Include allocable income distributed. Also
any other amount owed by the plan.
include on this line any elective deferrals and employee
Line 1c. Enter the net assets as of the beginning and end of contributions distributed or returned to employees during the
the plan year. (Subtract line 1b from 1a.) Line 1c, column (b) plan year, as well as any attributable income that was also
must equal the sum of line 1c, column (a) plus lines 2k and 2l. distributed.
Line 2a. Include the total cash contributions received or (for Line 2g. Report on line 2g a participant loan included in line
accrual basis plans) due to be received. 1a, column (a) (participant loans - beginning of year) and that
Line 2a(1). Plans using the accrual basis of accounting must has been deemed distributed during the plan year under the
not include contributions designated for years before the 2025 provisions of Code section 72(p) and Treasury Regulations
section 1.72(p)-1 only if both of the following circumstances
plan year on line 2a(1).
apply:
Line 2a(2). For welfare plans, report all employee
1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a
contributions, including all elective contributions under a
directed investment solely of the participant’s individual
cafeteria plan (Code section 125). For pension benefit plans,
account; and
participant contributions, for purposes of this item, also include
2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not
elective contributions under a qualified cash or deferred
continuing repayment under the loan.
arrangement (Code section 401(k)).
Line 2b. Use the current value, at date contributed, of If either of these circumstances does not apply, a deemed
distribution of a participant loan should not be reported on line
securities or other noncash property.
2g. Instead, the current value of the participant loan (including
Line 2c. Enter all other plan income for the plan year. Do not
interest accruing thereon after the deemed distribution) should
include transfers from other plans that are reported on line 2l.
be included on line 1a, column (b) (plan assets – end of year),
Other income received and/or receivable would include:
without regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
1. Interest on investments (including money market
Note. The amount to be reported on line 2g of Schedule H or
accounts, sweep accounts, STIF accounts, etc.).
Schedule I must be reduced if, during the plan year, a
2. Dividends. (Accrual basis plans should include dividends
participant resumes repayment under a participant loan
declared for all stock held by the plan even if the dividends
reported as a deemed distribution on line 2g for any earlier
have not been received as of the end of the plan year.)
year. The amount of the required reduction is the amount of
3. Rents from income-producing property owned by the
the participant loan reported as a deemed distribution on line
plan.
2g for the earlier year. If entering a negative number, enter a
4. Royalties.
minus sign “-” to the left of the number. The current value of
5. Net gain or loss from the sale of assets.
the participant loan must then be included in line 1c(8), column
6. Other income, such as unrealized appreciation
(b), of Schedule H (participant loans – end of year) or in line
(depreciation) in plan assets.
1a, column (b), of Schedule I (plan assets – end of year).
To compute this amount, subtract the current value of all
Although certain participant loans deemed distributed are to
assets at the beginning of the year plus the cost of any assets
be reported on line 2g of the Schedule H or Schedule I, and
acquired during the plan year from the current value of all
are not to be reported on the Schedule H or Schedule I as an
assets at the end of the year minus assets disposed of during
asset thereafter (unless the participant resumes repayment
the plan year.
under the loan in a later year), they are still considered
Line 2d. Enter the total of all cash contributions (lines 2a(1) outstanding loans and are not treated as actual distributions for
through (3)), noncash contributions (line 2b), and other plan certain purposes. See Q&As 12 and 19 of Treasury
income (line 2c) during the plan year. If entering a negative Regulations section 1.72(p)-1.
number, enter a minus sign “-” to the left of the number.
Line 2h. The amount to be reported for expenses involving
Line 2e. Include: (1) payments made (and for accrual basis administrative service providers (salaries, fees, and
filers) payments due to or on behalf of participants or commissions) includes the total fees paid (or in the case of
beneficiaries in cash, securities, or other property (including accrual basis plans, costs incurred during the plan year but not
rollovers of an individual’s accrued benefit or account balance). paid as of the end of the plan year) by the plan for, among
Include all eligible rollover distributions as defined in Code others:
section 401(a)(31)(D) paid at the participant’s election to an
1. Salaries to employees of the plan;
eligible retirement plan (including an IRA within the meaning of
2. Fees and expenses for accounting, actuarial, legal,
Code section 401(a)(31)(E)); (2) payments to insurance
investment management, investment advice, and securities
companies and similar organizations such as Blue Cross Blue
brokerage services;
Shield, and health maintenance organizations for the provision
3. Contract administrator fees;
of plan benefits (e.g., paid-up annuities, accident insurance,
4. Fees and expenses for individual plan trustees, including
health insurance, vision care, dental coverage, etc.); and (3)
reimbursement for travel, seminars, and meeting expenses;
payments made to other organizations or individuals providing
and
benefits. Generally, these payments discussed in (3) are made
5. Fees and expenses paid for valuations and appraisals of
to individual providers of welfare benefits such as legal
real estate and closely held securities.
services, day care services, and training and apprenticeship
services. If securities or other property are distributed to plan Line 2i. Other expenses (paid and/or payable) include other
administrative and miscellaneous expenses paid by or charged
-56- Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500)

to the plan, including among others, office supplies and 1. Under the plan, the participant loan is treated as a
equipment, telephone, postage, rent and expenses associated directed investment solely of the participant’s individual
with the ownership of a building used in operation of the plan. account; and
Line 2j. Enter the total of all benefits paid or due as reported 2. As of the end of the plan year, the participant is not
on lines 2e, 2f, and 2g and all other plan expenses (lines 2h continuing repayment under the loan.
and 2i) during the year. If both of these circumstances apply, report the loan as a
deemed distribution on line 2g. However, if either of these
Line 2l. Enter the net value of all assets transferred to and
circumstances does not apply, the current value of the
from the plan during the plan year including those resulting
participant loan (including interest accruing thereon after the
from mergers and spinoffs. A transfer of assets or liabilities
deemed distribution) should be included on line 3e without
occurs when there is a reduction of assets or liabilities with
regard to the occurrence of a deemed distribution.
respect to one plan and the receipt of these assets or the
assumption of these liabilities by another plan. Transfers out at Note. After participant loans have been deemed distributed
the end of the year should be reported as occurring during the and reported on line 2g of the Schedule I or H, they are no
plan year. longer required to be reported as assets on the Schedule I or
Note. A distribution of all or part of an individual participant’s H. However, such loans (including interest accruing thereon
after the deemed distribution) that have not been repaid are
account balance that is reportable on Form 1099-R,
still considered outstanding for purposes of applying Code
Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or Profit-
section 72(p)(2)(A) to determine the maximum amount of
Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc., should not be
subsequent loans. Also, the deemed distribution is not treated
included on line 2l but must be included in benefit payments
as an actual distribution for other purposes, such as the
reported on line 2e. Do not submit IRS Form 1099-R with Form
qualification requirements of Code section 401, including, for
5500.
example, the determination of top-heavy status under Code
Lines 3a through 3g. You must check either “Yes” or “No” on
section 416 and the vesting requirements of Treasury
each line to report whether the plan held any assets in the
Regulations section 1.411(a)-7(d)(5). See Q&As 12 and 19 of
listed categories at any time during the plan year. If “Yes” is
Treasury Regulations section 1.72(p)-1.
checked on any line, enter in the amount column for that line
the current value of the assets held at the end of the plan year Line 3f. Enter the current value of all loans made by the plan,
or “0” if no assets remain in the category at the end of the plan except participant loans reportable on line 3e. Include the sum
of the value of loans for construction, securities loans,
year. You should allocate the value of the plan’s interest in a
commercial and/or residential mortgage loans that are not
commingled trust containing the assets of more than one plan
subject to Code section 72(p) (either by making or participating
on a line-by-line basis, except do not include on lines 3a
in the loans directly or by purchasing loans originated by a
through 3g the value of the plan’s interest in any CCT, PSA,
third party), and other miscellaneous loans.
MTIA, or 103-12 IE (see instructions definitions of CCT, PSA,
MTIA, and 103-12 IE). Line 3g. Include all property that has concrete existence and is
capable of being processed, such as goods, wares,
Line 3a. Enter the value of the plan’s participation in a
merchandise, furniture, machines, equipment, animals,
partnership or joint venture, unless the partnership or joint
venture is a 103-12 IE. automobiles, etc. This includes collectibles, such as works of
art, rugs, antiques, metals, gems, stamps, coins, alcoholic
Line 3b. The term ‘‘employer real property’’ means real
beverages, musical instruments, and historical objects
property (and related personal property) that is leased to an
(documents, clothes, etc.). Do not include the value of a plan’s
employer of employees covered by the plan, or to an affiliate of
interest in property reported on lines 3a through 3f, or
such employer. For purposes of determining the time at which
intangible property, such as patents, copyrights, goodwill,
a plan acquires employer real property for purposes of this
franchises, notes, mortgages, stocks, claims, interests, or other
line, such property shall be deemed to be acquired by the plan
property that embodies intellectual or legal rights.
on the date on which the plan acquires the property or on the
Part II – Compliance Questions
date on which the lease to the employer (or affiliate) is entered
into, whichever is later. Answer all lines with either ‘‘Yes’’ or ‘‘No.’’ Do not leave any
Line 3d. An employer security is any security issued by an answer blank, unless otherwise directed. For lines 4a through
employer (including affiliates) of employees covered by the 4i and line 4l, if the answer is “Yes,” an amount must be
plan. These may include common stocks, preferred stocks, entered. If you check ‘‘No’’ on line 4k you must attach the
bonds, zero coupon bonds, debentures, convertible report of an independent qualified public accountant (IQPA) or
debentures, notes and commercial paper. a statement that the plan is eligible and elects to defer
attaching the IQPA’s opinion under 29 CFR 2520.104-50 in
Line 3e. Enter the current value of all loans to participants
connection with a short plan year of seven months or less.
including residential mortgage loans that are subject to Code
Plans with all of their fund held in a master trust should check
section 72(p). Include the sum of the value of the unpaid
“No” on Schedule I, lines 4b, c, and i.
principal balances, plus accrued but unpaid interest, if any, for
participant loans made under an individual account plan with Line 4a. Amounts paid by a participant or beneficiary to an
investment experience segregated for each account, that are employer and/or withheld by an employer for contribution to
made in accordance with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and secured the plan are participant contributions that become plan assets
solely by a portion of the participant’s vested accrued benefit. as of the earliest date on which such contributions can
When applicable, combine this amount with the current value reasonably be segregated from the employer’s general assets.
of any other participant loans. Do not include any amount of a See 29 CFR 2510.3-102. In the case of a plan with fewer than
participant loan deemed distributed during the plan year under 100 participants at the beginning of the plan year, any amount
the provisions of Code section 72(p) and Treasury Regulations deposited with such plan not later than the 7th business day
section 1.72(p)-1, if both of the following circumstances apply: following the day on which such amount is received by the
employer (in the case of amounts that a participant or
beneficiary pays to an employer), or the 7th business day
Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500) -57-

following the day on which such amount would otherwise have standards. For more information, see EBSA’s Frequently
been payable to the participant in cash (in the case of amount Asked Questions about Reporting Delinquent Contributions on
withheld by an employer from a participant’s wages), shall be the Form 5500, available on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
deemed to be contributed or repaid to such plan on the earliest These Frequently Asked Questions clarify that plans have an
date on which such contributions or participant loan obligation to include delinquent participant contributions on
repayments can reasonably be segregated from the their financial statements and supplemental schedules and that
employer’s general assets. See 29 CFR 2510.3-102(a)(2). the IQPA’s report covers such delinquent contributions even
though they are no longer required to be included on Part III of
Plans that check “Yes” must enter the aggregate amount of
the Schedule G. Although all delinquent participant
all late contributions for the year. The total amount of the
contributions must be reported on line 4a, delinquent
delinquent contributions must be included on line 4a of the
contributions for which the DOL Voluntary Fiduciary Correction
Schedule H or I, as applicable, for the year in which the
Program (VFCP) requirements and the conditions of the
contributions were delinquent and must be carried over and
Prohibited Transaction Exemption (PTE) 2002-51 have been
reported again on line 4a of the Schedule H or I, as applicable,
satisfied do not need to be treated as nonexempt party-in-
for each subsequent year until the year after the violation has
interest transactions.
been fully corrected, which correction includes payment of the
late contributions and reimbursement of the plan for lost The VFCP describes how to apply, the specific transactions
earnings or profits. If no participant contributions were received covered (which transactions include delinquent participant
or withheld by the employer during the plan year, answer ‘‘No.’’ contributions to pension and welfare plans), and acceptable
The last plan year to include a delinquent participant methods for correcting violations. In addition, applicants that
satisfy both the VFCP requirements and the conditions of
contribution on Form 5500, Schedule I, Line 4a, and
Prohibited Transaction Exemption (PTE) 2002-51 are eligible
accompanying schedule attachment, is the plan year in which
for immediate relief from payment of certain prohibited
the violation has been fully corrected. For example, a plan is
transaction excise taxes for certain corrected transactions and
first delinquent on a particular participant contribution during
are also relieved from the obligation to file the IRS Form 5330
plan year 2022. This delinquent participant contribution is
with the IRS. For more information, see 90 Fed. Reg. 4192
discovered in plan year 2023 and fully corrected in plan year
(Jan. 15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15, 2025). All
2023. The plan’s 2022 Form 5500, Schedule I, Line 4a
delinquent participant contributions must be reported on line 4a
reporting must include the delinquent participant contribution.
even if violations have been corrected. Information about the
The plan’s 2023 Form 5500, Schedule I, Line 4a reporting
VFCP is also available on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
must include the delinquent contribution because although it is
fully corrected, it was delinquent within that 2023 reporting Line 4a Schedule. Attach a Schedule of Delinquent
period. The plan’s 2024 Form 5500 does not include the Participant Contributions using the format below if you entered
delinquent participant contribution that originated in the 2022 “Yes” on line 4a and you are checking “No” on line 4k because
plan year, but is fully corrected in plan year 2023, because the you are not claiming the audit waiver for the plan. If you
delinquency that began in plan year 2022 is no longer choose to include participant loan repayments on line 4a, you
delinquent at any time within the 2024 plan year. must apply the same supplemental schedule and IQPA
disclosure requirements to the loan repayments as apply to
An employer holding participant contributions commingled
delinquent transmittals of participant contributions.
with its general assets after the earliest date on which such
contributions can reasonably be segregated from the
employer’s general assets will have engaged in prohibited use
Schedule I Line 4a – Schedule of Delinquent
of plan assets (see ERISA section 406). If such a nonexempt
Participant Contributions
prohibited transaction occurred with respect to a disqualified
person (see Code section 4975(e)(2)), file IRS Form 5330, Participant Total that Constitutes Nonexempt Total
Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans, Contributions Prohibited Transactions Fully
Transferred Corrected
with the IRS to pay any applicable excise tax on the
Late to Plan Under
transaction.
VFCP
Check here if Contributions Contributions Contributions
Participant loan repayments paid to and/or withheld by an and PTE
Late Not Corrected Pending
employer for purposes of transmittal to the plan that were not Participant Corrected Outside Correction in 2002-51
transmitted to the plan in a timely fashion must be reported Loan VFCP VFCP
either on line 4a in accordance with the reporting requirements Repayments
that apply to delinquent participant contributions or on line 4d. are included:
See Advisory Opinion 2002-02A, available at
Line 4b. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount. The
www.dol.gov/ebsa.
due date, payment amount and conditions for determining
For those Schedule I filers required to submit an IQPA default of a note or loan are usually contained in the
report, delinquent participant contributions reported on documents establishing the note or loan. A loan by the plan is
line 4a must be treated as part of the separate schedules in default when the borrower is unable to pay the obligation
referenced in ERISA section 103(a)(3)(A) and 29 CFR upon maturity. Obligations that require periodic repayment can
2520.103-1(b) and 2520.103-2(b) for purposes of preparing the default at any time. Generally, loans and fixed income
IQPA’s opinion even though they are not required to be listed obligations are considered uncollectible when payment has not
on Part III of the Schedule G. If the information contained on been made and there is little probability that payment will be
line 4a is not presented in accordance with regulatory made. A fixed income obligation has a fixed maturity date at a
requirements, i.e., when the IQPA concludes that the specified interest rate. Do not include participant loans made
scheduled information required by line 4a does not contain all under an individual account plan with investment experience
the required information or contains information that is segregated for each account that were made in accordance
inaccurate or is inconsistent with the plan’s financial with 29 CFR 2550.408b-1 and secured solely by a portion of
statements, the IQPA report must make the appropriate the participant’s vested accrued benefit.
disclosures in accordance with generally accepted auditing
-58- Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500)

Line 4c. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount. A H. An employee, officer, director (or an individual having
lease is an agreement conveying the right to use property, powers or responsibilities similar to those of officers or
plant or equipment for a stated period. A lease is in default directors), or a 10% or more shareholder, directly or
when the required payment(s) has not been made. An indirectly, of a person described in B, C, D, E, or G, or of the
uncollectible lease is one where the required payments have employee benefit plan;
not been made and for which there is little probability that I. A 10% or more (directly or indirectly in capital or profits)
payment will be made. partner or joint venture of a person described in B, C, D, E,
or G.
Line 4d. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the amount. Check
“Yes” if any nonexempt transaction with a party-in-interest Nonexempt transactions with a party-in-interest include
occurred regardless of whether the transaction is disclosed in any direct or indirect:
the IQPA’s report. Do not check “Yes” with respect to A. Sale or exchange, or lease, of any property between the
transactions that are: (1) statutorily exempt under Part 4 of plan and a party-in-interest.
Title I of ERISA; (2) administratively exempt under ERISA B. Lending of money or other extension of credit between
section 408(a); (3) exempt under Code sections 4975(c) or the plan and a party-in-interest.
4975(d); (4) the holding of participant contributions in the C. Furnishing of goods, services, or facilities between the
employer’s general assets for a welfare plan that meets the plan and a party-in-interest.
conditions of ERISA Technical Release 92-01; (5) a D. Transfer to, or use by or for the benefit of, a party-in-
transaction of a 103-12 IE with parties other than the plan; or interest, of any income or assets of the plan.
(6) delinquent participant contributions or delinquent participant E. Acquisition, on behalf of the plan, of any employer
loan repayments reported on line 4a. You may indicate that an security or employer real property in violation of ERISA
application for an administrative exemption is pending. If you section 407(a).
are unsure whether a transaction is exempt or not, you should F. Dealing with the assets of the plan for a fiduciary’s own
consult with either a qualified public accountant, legal counsel interest or own account.
or both. If the plan is a qualified pension plan and a nonexempt G. Acting in a fiduciary’s individual or any other capacity in
prohibited transaction occurred with respect to a disqualified any transaction involving the plan on behalf of a party (or
person, an IRS Form 5330 should be filed with the IRS to pay represent a party) whose interests are adverse to the
the excise tax on the transaction. interests of the plan or the interests of its participants or
beneficiaries.
Applicants that satisfy the VFCP requirements and the
conditions of PTE 2002-51 (see the instructions for line H. Receipt of any consideration for their own personal
account by a party-in-interest who is a fiduciary from any
4a) are eligible for immediate relief from payment of certain
party dealing with the plan in connection with a transaction
prohibited transaction excise taxes for certain corrected
transactions, and are also relieved from the obligation to file involving the income or assets of the plan.
the Form 5330 with the IRS. For more information, see 90 Fed. Line 4e. Plans that check “Yes” must enter the aggregate
Reg. 4192 (Jan. 15, 2025) and 90 Fed. Reg. 3667 (Jan. 15, amount of fidelity bond coverage for all claims. Check ‘‘Yes’’
2025). When the conditions of PTE 2002-51 have been only if the plan itself (as opposed to the plan sponsor or
satisfied, the corrected transactions should be treated as administrator) is a named insured under a fidelity bond from an
exempt under Code section 4975(c) for the purposes of approved surety covering plan officials and that protects the
answering line 4d. plan from losses due to fraud or dishonesty as described in 29
CFR Part 2580. Generally, every plan official of an employee
Party-in-Interest. For purposes of this form, party-in-
benefit plan who ‘‘handles’’ funds or other property of such
interest is deemed to include a disqualified person. See Code
plan must be bonded. Generally, a person shall be deemed to
section 4975(e)(2). The term ‘‘party-in-interest’’ means, as to
be ‘‘handling’’ funds or other property of a plan, so as to
an employee benefit plan:
require bonding, whenever their duties or activities with respect
A. Any fiduciary (including, but not limited to, any
to given funds are such that there is a risk that such funds
administrator, officer, trustee, or custodian), counsel, or
could be lost in the event of fraud or dishonesty on the part of
employee of the plan;
such person, acting either alone or in collusion with others.
B. A person providing services to the plan;
Section 412 of ERISA and 29 CFR Part 2580 describe the
C. An employer, any of whose employees are covered by
bonding requirements, including the definition of ‘‘handling’’ (29
the plan;
CFR 2580.412-6), the permissible forms of bonds (29 CFR
D. An employee organization, any of whose members are
2580.412-10), the amount of the bond (29 CFR Part 2580,
covered by the plan;
subpart C), and certain exemptions such as the exemption for
E. An owner, direct or indirect, of 50% or more of: (1) the
unfunded plans, certain banks and insurance companies
combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote
(ERISA section 412), and the exemption allowing plan officials
or the total value of shares of all classes of stock of a
to purchase bonds from surety companies authorized by the
corporation, (2) the capital interest or the profits interest of a
Secretary of the Treasury as acceptable reinsurers on federal
partnership, or (3) the beneficial interest of a trust or
bonds (29 CFR 2580.412-23). Information concerning the list
unincorporated enterprise that is an employer or an
of approved sureties and reinsurers is available on the Internet
employee organization described in C or D;
at www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/list-certified-
F. A relative of any individual described in A, B, C, or E;
companies.html. For more information on the fidelity bonding
G. A corporation, partnership, or trust or estate of which (or
requirements, see Field Assistance Bulletin 2008-04, available
in which) 50% or more of: (1) the combined voting power of
on the Internet at www.dol.gov/ebsa.
all classes of stock entitled to vote or the total value of
Note. Plans are permitted under certain conditions to purchase
shares of all classes of stock of such corporation, (2) the
fiduciary liability insurance. These fiduciary liability insurance
capital interest or profits interest of such partnership, or (3)
policies are not written specifically to protect the plan from
the beneficial interest of such trust or estate is owned
losses due to dishonest acts and cannot be reported as fidelity
directly or indirectly, or held by, persons described in A, B,
bonds on line 4e.
C, D, or E;
Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500) -59-

Line 4f. Check ‘‘Yes,’’ if the plan had suffered or discovered Line 4k. Check ‘‘Yes’’ if you are claiming a waiver of the
any loss as a result of any dishonest or fraudulent act(s) even annual examination and report of an independent qualified
if the loss was reimbursed by the plan’s fidelity bond or from public accountant (IQPA) under 29 CFR 2520.104-46. You are
any other source. If ‘‘Yes’’ is checked enter the full amount of eligible to claim the waiver if the Schedule I is being filed for:
the loss. If the full amount of the loss has not yet been 1. A small welfare plan, or
determined, provide an estimate as determined in good faith 2. A small pension plan for a plan year that began on or
by a plan fiduciary. You must keep, in accordance with ERISA after April 18, 2001, that complies with the conditions of 29
section 107, records showing how the estimate was
CFR 2520.104-46 summarized below.
determined.
Check ‘‘No’’ and attach the report of the IQPA meeting the
Willful failure to report is a criminal offense. See ERISA
requirements of 29 CFR 2520.103-1(b) if you are not claiming
section 501.
the waiver. Also check ‘‘No,’’ and attach the required IQPA
Lines 4g and 4h. Current value means fair market value where
reports or the required explanatory statement if you are relying
available. Otherwise, it means the fair value as determined in
on 29 CFR 2520.104-50 in connection with a short plan year of
good faith under the terms of the plan by a trustee or a named
seven months or less. At the top of any attached 2520.104-50
fiduciary, assuming an orderly liquidation at time of the
statement, enter “2520.104-50 Statement, Schedule I, Line
determination. See ERISA section 3(26).
4k.”
An accurate assessment of fair market value is essential to
For more information on the requirements for deferring an
a pension plan’s ability to comply with the requirements set
IQPA report under 29 CFR 2520.104-50 in connection with a
forth in the Code (e.g., the exclusive benefit rule of Code
short plan year of seven months or less and the contents of the
section 401(a)(2), the limitations on benefits and contributions
required explanatory statement, see the instructions for
under Code section 415, and the minimum funding
Schedule H, line 3d(2) or call the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-
requirements under Code section 412) and must be
GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278) (toll-free).
determined annually.
Note. For plans that check “No,” the IQPA report must make
Examples of assets that may not have a readily
the appropriate disclosures in accordance with generally
determinable value on an established market (e.g., NYSE,
accepted auditing standards if the information reported on line
AMEX, over the counter, etc.) include real estate, nonpublicly
4a is not presented in accordance with regulatory
traded securities, shares in a limited partnership, and
requirements.
collectibles. Do not check “Yes” on line 4g for mutual fund
shares or insurance company investment contracts for which The following summarizes the conditions of 29 CFR
the plan receives valuation information at least annually. Also 2520.104-46 that must be met for a small pension plan with a
do not check ‘‘Yes’’ on line 4g if the plan is a defined plan year beginning on or after April 18, 2001, to be eligible for
contribution plan and the only assets the plan holds, that do the waiver. For more information regarding these
not have a readily determinable value on an established requirements, see the EBSA’s Frequently Asked Questions on
market, are: (1) participant loans not in default, or (2) assets the Small Pension Plan Audit Waiver Regulation and 29 CFR
over which the participant exercises control within the meaning 2520.104-46, which are available at www.dol.gov/ebsa, or call
of ERISA section 404(c). the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-GO-EFAST (1-866-463-3278)
(toll-free)
Although the current value of plan assets must be
determined each year, there is no requirement that the assets Condition 1: At least 95 percent of plan assets are
(other than certain nonpublicly traded employer securities held “qualifying plan assets” as of the end of the preceding plan
in ESOPs) be valued every year by independent third-party year, or any person who handles assets of the plan that do not
appraisers. constitute qualifying plan assets is bonded in accordance with
the requirements of ERISA section 412 (see the instructions
Enter in the amount column the fair market value of the
for line 4e), except that the amount of the bond shall not be
assets referred to on line 4g whose value was not readily
less than the value of such non-qualifying assets.
determinable on an established market and which were not
valued by an independent third-party appraiser in the plan The determination of the “percent of plan assets” as of the
year. Generally, as it relates to these questions, an appraisal end of the preceding plan year and the amount of any required
by an independent third party is an evaluation of the value of bond must be made at the beginning of the plan’s reporting
an asset prepared by an individual or firm who knows how to year for which the waiver is being claimed. For purposes of this
judge the value of such assets and does not have an ongoing line, you will have satisfied the requirement to make these
relationship with the plan or plan fiduciaries except for determinations at the beginning of the plan reporting year for
preparing the appraisals. which the waiver is being claimed if they are made as soon
after the date when such year begins as the necessary
Line 4i. Include as a single security all securities of the same
information from the preceding reporting year can practically
issue. An example of a single issue is a certificate of deposit
be ascertained. See 29 CFR 2580.412-11, 14 and 19 for
issued by the XYZ Bank on July 1, 2023, which matures on
additional guidance on these determinations, and 29 CFR
June 30, 2025, and yields x%. For the purposes of line 4i, do
2580.412-15 for procedures to be used for estimating these
not check ‘‘Yes’’ for securities issued by the U.S. Government
amounts if there is no preceding plan year.
or its agencies. Also, do not check “Yes” for securities held as
a result of participant-directed transactions. The term ‘‘qualifying plan assets,’’ for purposes of this line,
means:
Line 4j. Check “Yes” if all the plan assets (including
insurance/annuity contracts) were distributed to the 1. Any assets held by any of the following regulated financial
participants and beneficiaries, legally transferred to the control institutions:
of another plan, or brought under the control of PBGC. a. A bank or similar financial institution as defined in 29
CFR 2550.408b-4(c);
Check ‘‘No’’ for a welfare benefit plan that is still liable to pay
b. An insurance company qualified to do business under the
benefits for claims that were incurred before the termination
laws of a state;
date, but not yet paid. See 29 CFR 2520.104b-2(g)(2)(ii).
-60- Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500)

c. An organization registered as a broker-dealer under the section 408(b)(1)), totaling $20,000; and a $20,000 investment
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or in a real estate limited partnership. Because the only asset of
d. Any other organization authorized to act as a trustee for the plan that did not constitute a ‘‘qualifying plan asset’’ is the
individual retirement accounts under Code section 408. $20,000 real estate limited partnership investment and that
2. Shares issued by an investment company registered investment represents less than 5% of the plan’s total assets,
under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (e.g., mutual no fidelity bond is required as a condition for the plan to be
funds); eligible for the waiver for the 2001 plan year.
3. Investment and annuity contracts issued by any
Plan B is identical to Plan A except that of Plan B’s total
insurance company qualified to do business under the laws of
assets of $600,000 as of the end of the 2000 plan year,
a state;
$558,000 constitutes ‘‘qualifying plan assets’’ and $42,000
4. In the case of an individual account plan, any assets in
constitutes non-qualifying plan assets. Because 7% – more
the individual account of a participant or beneficiary over which
than 5% – of Plan B’s assets do not constitute ‘‘qualifying plan
the participant or beneficiary has the opportunity to exercise
assets,’’ Plan B, as a condition to be eligible for the waiver for
control and with respect to which the participant or beneficiary
the 2001 plan year, must ensure that it has a fidelity bond in an
is furnished, at least annually, a statement from a regulated
amount equal to at least $42,000 covering persons handling its
financial institution referred to above describing the assets held
non-qualifying plan assets. Inasmuch as compliance with
or issued by the institution and the amount of such assets;
ERISA section 412 generally requires the amount of the bond
5. Qualifying employer securities, as defined in ERISA
be not less than 10% of the amount of all the plan’s funds or
section 407(d)(5); and
other property handled, the bond acquired for ERISA section
6. Participant loans meeting the requirements of ERISA 412 purposes may be adequate to cover the non-qualifying
section 408(b)(1). plan assets without an increase (i.e., if the amount of the bond
Condition 2: The administrator must disclose the following determined to be needed for the relevant persons for ERISA
information in the summary annual report (SAR) furnished to section 412 purposes is at least $42,000). As demonstrated by
participants and beneficiaries, in accordance with 29 CFR the foregoing example, where a plan has more than 5% of its
2520.104b-10. For defined benefit pension plans that are assets in non-qualifying plan assets, the required bond is for
required under ERISA section 101(f) to furnish an Annual the total amount of the non-qualifying plan assets, not just the
Funding Notice (AFN), the administrator must instead either amount in excess of 5%.
provide the information to participants and beneficiaries with
If you need further information regarding these
the AFN or as a stand-alone notification at the time a SAR
requirements, see 29 CFR 2520.104-46 which is available at
would have been due and in accordance with the rules for
www.dol.gov/ebsa or call the EFAST2 Help Desk at 1-866-GO-
furnishing an SAR, although such plans do not have to furnish
EFAST (1-866-463-3278) (toll-free)
a SAR.
Line 4l. You must check “Yes” if any benefits due under the
1. The name of each regulated financial institution holding
plan were not timely paid or not paid in full. This would include
or issuing qualifying plan assets and the amount of such
required minimum distributions to 5% owners who have
assets reported by the institution as of the end of the plan year
attained the applicable ages as described in Code section
(this SAR disclosure requirement does not apply to qualifying
401(a)(9)(C)(v) whether or not retired and/or non-5% owners
employer securities, participant loans and individual account
who have attained the applicable ages as described in Code
assets described in paragraphs 4,5 and 6 above);
section 401(a)(9)(C)(v) and have retired or separated from
2. The name of the surety company issuing the fidelity bond,
service, see Code section 401(a)(9). Include in this amount the
if the plan has more than 5% of its assets in non-qualifying
total of any outstanding amounts that were not paid when due
plan assets;
in previous years that have continued to remain unpaid.
3. A notice that participants and beneficiaries may, upon
Note. In the absence of other guidance, filers do not need to
request and without charge, examine or receive from the plan
report on this line unpaid required minimum distribution (RMD)
evidence of the required bond and copies of statements from
amounts for participants who have retired or separated from
the regulated financial institutions describing the qualifying
service, or their beneficiaries, who cannot be located after
plan assets; and
reasonable efforts or where the plan is in the process of
4. A notice that participants and beneficiaries should contact
engaging in such reasonable efforts at the end of the plan year
the EBSA Regional Office if they are unable to examine or
reporting period. Plan administrators and employers should
obtain copies of the regulated financial institution statements or
review their plan documents for written procedures on locating
evidence of the required bond, if applicable.
missing participants. Although the Department of Labor’s Field
A Model Notice that plans can use to satisfy the enhanced
Assistance Bulletin 2014-01 is specifically applicable to
SAR (or Annual Funding Notice) disclosure requirements to be
terminated defined contribution plans, employers and plan
eligible for the audit waiver is available as an Appendix to 29
administrators of ongoing plans may want to consider
CFR 2520.104-46.
periodically using one or more of the search methods
Condition 3: In addition, in response to a request from any described in the FAB in connection with making reasonable
participant or beneficiary, the administrator, without charge to efforts to locate RMD-eligible missing participants.
the participant or beneficiary, must make available for
Line 4m. Check “Yes” if there was a “blackout period.” A
examination, or upon request furnish copies of, each regulated
blackout period is a temporary suspension of more than three
financial institution statement and evidence of any required
(3) consecutive business days during which participants or
bond.
beneficiaries of a 401(k) or other individual account pension
Examples. Plan A, which has a plan year that began on or plan were unable to, or were limited or restricted in their ability
after April 18, 2001, had total assets of $600,000 as of the end to, direct or diversify assets credited to their accounts, obtain
of the 2000 plan year that included: investments in various loans from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan. A
bank, insurance company and mutual fund products of “blackout period” generally does not include a temporary
$520,000; investments in qualifying employer securities of suspension of the right of participants and beneficiaries to
$40,000; participant loans (meeting the requirements of ERISA direct or diversify assets credited to their accounts, obtain
Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500) -61-

loans from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan if the numbers. The Schedule I and its attachments are open to
temporary suspension is: (1) part of the regularly scheduled public inspection, and the contents are public information and
operations of the plan that has been disclosed to participants are subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
and beneficiaries; (2) due to a qualified domestic relations concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any
order (QDRO) or because of a pending determination as to portion thereof on this Schedule I or the inclusion of a visible
whether a domestic relations order is a QDRO; (3) due to an social security number or any portion thereof on an attachment
action or a failure to take action by an individual participant or may result in the rejection of the filing.
because of an action or claim by someone other than the plan
Note. A distribution of all or part of an individual participant’s
regarding a participant’s individual account; (4) by application
account balance that is reportable on IRS Form 1099-R should
of federal securities laws. For more information, see 29 CFR
not be included on line 5b. Do not submit IRS Form 1099-R
2520.101-3 (available at www.dol.gov/ebsa).
with the Form 5500.
Line 4n. If there was a blackout period, did you provide the IRS Form 5310-A, Notice of Plan Merger or Consolidation,
required notice not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days in
Spinoff, or Transfer of Plan Assets or Liabilities; Notice of
advance of restricting the rights of participants and
Qualified Separate Lines of Business, may be required to be
beneficiaries to change their plan investments, obtain loans
filed at least 30 days before any plan merger or consolidation
from the plan, or obtain distributions from the plan? If so, check or any transfer of plan assets or liabilities to another plan.
“Yes.” See 29 CFR 2520.101-3 for specific notice requirements There is a penalty of $25 a day (up to a maximum of $15,000)
and for exceptions from the notice requirement. Also, answer for not filing IRS Form 5310-A on time.” In addition, a transfer
“Yes” if one of the exceptions to the notice requirement under of benefit liabilities involving a plan covered by PBGC
29 CFR 2520.101-3 applies.
insurance may be reportable to PBGC. See PBGC Form 10,
Line 5a. Check “Yes” if a resolution to terminate the plan was Post-Event Notice of Reportable Events, and PBGC Form 10-
adopted during this or any prior plan year, unless the Advance, Advance Notice of Reportable Events.
termination was revoked and no assets reverted to the
Line 5c. Check “Yes” if the plan was covered by PBGC at any
employer. If ‘‘Yes’’ is checked, enter the amount of plan assets
time during the plan year to which the Form 5500 relates and
that reverted to the employer during the plan year in
enter the My PAA generated confirmation number for the
connection with the implementation of such termination. Enter
premium filing for that plan year reported (see filing receipt).
‘‘0’’ if no reversion occurred during the current plan year.
“Yes” must be checked even if coverage has ceased and/or
A Form 5500 must be filed for each year the plan has final premiums have been paid before the Form 5500 is due.
assets, and, for a welfare benefit plan, if the plan is still
If you are uncertain whether the plan is covered under the
liable to pay benefits for claims that were incurred before the
PBGC termination insurance program, check the box “Not
termination date, but not yet paid. See 29 CFR 2520.104b-
determined” and contact PBGC either by phone at 1-800-736-
2(g)(2)(ii).
2444, by Email at coverage@pbgc.gov. If you amended your
Line 5b. Enter information concerning assets and/or liabilities premium filing for this plan year, enter the confirmation number
transferred from this plan to another plan(s) (including spinoffs) for that filing and not for the previous filing(s). Defined
during the plan year. A transfer of assets or liabilities occurs contribution plans and welfare plans do not need to complete
when there is a reduction of assets or liabilities with respect to this item.
one plan and the receipt of these assets or the assumption of Note. A church defined benefit pension plan that has made an
these liabilities by another plan. Enter the name, plan sponsor election under Code section 410(d) should see www.pbgc.gov
EIN, and PN for the transferee plan(s) involved on lines 5(b)1, for the procedures prescribed by PBGC on how to notify PBGC
(2), and (3).
that it wishes to have Title IV of ERISA apply to it.
Do not use a social security number in lieu of an EIN or
include an attachment that contains visible social security
-62- Instructions for Schedule I (Form 5500)

You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
2025 Instructions for Schedule MB
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For
(Form 5500) more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement
under the General Instructions to Form 5500 and How to File –
Multiemployer Defined Benefit Plan and
Electronic Filing Requirement under the General Instructions to
Certain Money Purchase Plan Actuarial Form 5500-SF. The EBSA does not issue EINs.
Information Note. (1) For split-funded plans, the costs and contributions
reported on Schedule MB must include those relating to both
General Instructions trust funds and insurance carriers. (2) For plans with funding
Who Must File standard account amortization charges and credits, see the
instructions for lines 9c and 9h. (3) For terminating
As the first step, the plan administrator of any multiemployer
multiemployer plans, Code section 412(e)(4) and ERISA
defined benefit plan that is subject to the minimum funding
section 301(c) provide that minimum funding standards apply
standards (see Code sections 412 and 431 and Part 3 of Title I
until the last day of the plan year in which the plan terminates
of ERISA) must obtain a completed Schedule MB (Form 5500)
within the meaning of ERISA section 4041A(a)(2). Accordingly,
that is prepared and signed by the plan’s enrolled actuary as
the Schedule MB is not required to be filed for any later plan
discussed below in the Statement by Enrolled Actuary section.
year.
The plan administrator must retain with the plan records the
Statement by Enrolled Actuary
Schedule MB that is prepared and signed by the plan’s actuary.
An enrolled actuary must sign Schedule MB unless, as
Next, the plan administrator of a multiemployer defined
described above, the plan is a money purchase defined
benefit plan must ensure that the information from the
actuary’s Schedule MB is entered electronically into the annual contribution plan that has received a waiver of the minimum
return/report being submitted. When entering the information, funding standard. The signature of the enrolled actuary may be
whether using EFAST2-approved software or EFAST2’s web- qualified to state that it is subject to attached qualifications.
based filing system, all the fields required for the type of plan See Treasury Regulations section 301.6059-1(d) for permitted
must be completed (see instructions for fields that need to be qualifications. Except as otherwise provided in these
completed). instructions, a stamped or machine produced signature is not
acceptable. If the actuary has not fully reflected any final or
Further, the plan administrator of a multiemployer defined
temporary regulation, revenue ruling, or notice promulgated
benefit plan must attach to the Form 5500 an electronic
under the statute in completing the Schedule MB, check the
reproduction of the Schedule MB prepared and signed by the
box on the last line of page 1. If this box is checked, indicate
plan’s enrolled actuary. This electronic reproduction must be
on an attachment whether an accumulated funding deficiency
labeled “MB Actuary Signature” and must be included as a
or a contribution that is not wholly deductible would result if the
Portable Document Format (PDF) attachment or any
actuary had fully reflected such regulation, revenue ruling, or
alternative electronic attachment allowable under EFAST2.
notice, and label this attachment “Schedule MB – Statement
If a money purchase defined contribution plan (including a by Enrolled Actuary.” In addition, the actuary may offer any
target benefit plan) has received a waiver of the minimum other comments related to the information contained in
funding standard, and the waiver is currently being amortized, Schedule MB.
lines 3, 9, and 10 of Schedule MB must be completed but it
The actuary must provide the completed and signed
need not be signed by an enrolled actuary. In such a case, the
Schedule MB to the plan administrator to be retained with the
Form 5500 or the Form 5500-SF that is submitted under
plan records and included (in accordance with these
EFAST2 must include the Schedule MB with lines 3, 9, and 10
instructions) with the Form 5500 that is submitted under
completed, but is not required to include a PDF attachment of a
EFAST2. The plan’s actuary is permitted to sign the Schedule
signed Schedule MB.
MB on page one using the actuary’s signature or by inserting
Note. Schedule MB does not have to be filed with the Form the actuary’s typed name in the signature line followed by the
5500-EZ regardless of whether it is filed on paper with the IRS actuary’s handwritten initials. The actuary’s most recent
or electronically with EFAST2, but, if required, it must be enrollment number must be entered on the Schedule MB that
retained (in accordance with the instructions for the Form is prepared and signed by the plan’s actuary.
5500-EZ under the What to File section). Also, the funding
Attachments
standard account for the plan must continue to be maintained,
even if the Schedule MB is not filed. All attachments to the Schedule MB must be properly
identified, and must include the name of the plan, the plan
Check the Schedule MB box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
sponsor’s EIN, and the plan number. Put “Schedule MB” and
10a(2)) if a Schedule MB is attached to the Form 5500.
the line number to which the attachment relates at the top of
Lines A through E must be completed for ALL plans. If the each attachment. Do not include attachments that contain a
Schedule MB is attached to a Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF,
visible social security number. The Schedule MB and its
lines A, B, C, and D should include the same information as
attachments are open to public inspection, and the contents
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF. You
are public information and are subject to publication on the
may abbreviate the plan name.
Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a visible
Do not use a social security number in line D in lieu of an social security number or any portion thereof on an attachment
EIN. The Schedule MB and its attachments are open to public may result in the rejection of the filing.
inspection if filed with a Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF, and the Specific Instructions
contents are public information and are subject to publication
on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a Line 1. All entries must be reported as of the valuation date.
social security number or any portion thereof on this Schedule Line 1a. Actuarial Valuation Date. The valuation for a plan
MB or any of its attachments may result in the rejection of the year may be as of any date in the plan year, including the first
filing. or last day of the plan year. Valuations must be performed
Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500) -63-

within the period specified by Code section 431(c)(7) and The current liability must be computed using the mortality
ERISA section 304(c)(7). tables referenced in section 1.431(c)(6)-1 of the Treasury
Regulations.
Line 1b(1). Current Value of Assets. Enter the current value
of assets as of the valuation date. The current value is the Each other actuarial assumption used in calculating the
same as the fair market value. Do not adjust for items such as current liability must be the same assumption used for
the existing credit balance or the outstanding balances of calculating other costs for the funding standard account. See
certain amortization bases. Contributions designated for 2025 Notice 90-11, 1990-1 C.B. 319. The actuary must take into
should not be included in this amount. Note that this entry may account rates of early retirement and the plan’s early
be different from the entry in line 2a. Such a difference may retirement and turnover provisions as they relate to benefits,
result, for example, if the valuation date is not the first day of where these would significantly affect the results.
the plan year, or if insurance contracts are excluded from Regardless of the valuation date, current liability is computed
assets reported on line 1b(1) but not on line 2a. taking into account only credited service through the end of
Rollover amounts or other assets held in individual the prior plan year. No salary scale projections should be
accounts that are not available to provide defined benefits used in these computations. Do not include the expected
under the plan should not be included on line 1b(1), regardless increase in current liability due to benefits accruing during
of whether they are reported on the 2025 Schedule H (Form the plan year reported on line 1d(2)(b) in these
5500) (line 1I, column (a)) or Schedule I (Form 5500) (line 1c, computations.
column (a)). Additionally, asset and liability amounts must be Line 1d(2)(b). Expected Increase in Current Liability.
determined in a consistent manner. Therefore, if the value of Enter the amount by which the current liability is expected to
any insurance contracts has been excluded from the amount
increase due to benefits accruing during the plan year on
reported on line 1b(1), liabilities satisfied by such contracts
account of credited service and/or salary changes for the
should also be excluded from the liability values reported on
current year. One year’s salary scale may be reflected.
lines 1c(1), 1c(2), and 1d(2) of the Schedule MB.
Line 1d(2)(c). Expected Release From Current Liability
Note. If the plan received special financial assistance under for the Plan Year. Enter the expected release from current
ERISA section 4262 on or before the valuation date, exclude
liability on account of disbursements (including single-sum
the value of the special financial assistance account (as
distributions) from the plan expected to be paid after the
described in IRS Notice 2021-38) as of the valuation date.
valuation date but prior to the end of the plan year (see also
Line 1b(2). Actuarial Value of Assets. Enter the value of Q&A-7 of Revenue Ruling 96-21, 1996-1 C.B. 64).
assets determined in accordance with Code section 431(c)(2)
Line 1d(3). Expected Plan Disbursements. Enter the
and ERISA section 304(c)(2). Do not adjust for items such as
amount of plan disbursements expected to be paid for the
the existing credit balance or the outstanding balances of
plan year.
certain amortization bases, and do not include contributions
Line 2. All entries must be reported as of the beginning of
designated for 2025 in this amount.
the 2025 plan year. Lines 2a and 2b should include all
Note. If the plan received special financial assistance under assets and liabilities under the plan except for assets and
ERISA section 4262 on or before the valuation date, exclude
liabilities attributable to: (1) rollover amounts or other
the value of the special financial assistance account (as amounts in individual accounts that are not available to
described in IRS Notice 2021-38) as of the valuation date. provide defined benefits, or (2) benefits for which an insurer
Line 1c(1). Accrued Liability for Immediate Gain Methods. has made an irrevocable commitment as defined in 29 CFR
Complete this line only if you use an immediate gain method 4001.2.
(see Revenue Ruling 81-213, 1981-2 C.B. 101, for a definition
Line 2a. Current Value of Assets. Enter the current value
of immediate gain method).
of net assets as of the first day of the plan year. Except for
Lines 1c(2)(a), (b), and (c). Information for Plans Using plans with excluded assets as described above, this entry
Spread Gain Methods. Complete these lines only if you use a should be the same as reported on the 2025 Schedule H
spread gain method (see Revenue Ruling 81-213 for a (Form 5500) (line 1l, column (a)) or Schedule I (Form 5500)
definition of spread gain method). (line 1c, column (a)). Note that contributions designated for
Line 1c(2)(a). Unfunded Liability for Methods with Bases. the 2025 plan year are not included on those lines.
Complete this line only if you use the frozen initial liability or Note. If the plan received special financial assistance under
attained age normal cost method. ERISA section 4262 on or before the first day of the plan
year, exclude the value of the special financial assistance
Lines 1c(2)(b) and (c). Entry Age Normal Accrued Liability
account (as described in IRS Notice 2021-38) as of the first
and Normal Cost. For spread gain methods, these
day of the plan year.
calculations are used for purposes of the full funding limitation
(see Revenue Ruling 81-13, 1981-1 C.B. 229). Line 2b. Current Liability (beginning of plan year). Enter
Line 1d(1). Amount Excluded from Current Liability. the current liability as of the first day of the plan year. Do not
Leave line 1(d)(1) blank. include the expected increase in current liability due to
benefits accruing during the plan year. See the instructions
Line 1d(2)(a). Current Liability. All multiemployer plans,
for line 1d(2)(a) for actuarial assumptions used in
regardless of the number of participants, must provide the
determining current liability.
information indicated in accordance with these instructions.
The interest rate used to compute the current liability must be Column (1) – Enter the number of participants and
beneficiaries as of the beginning of the plan year in each
in accordance with guidelines issued by the IRS and, under the
category (e.g., terminated vested participants). Enter “0” if no
PPA, must not be more than 5 percent above and must not be
participants fall into the category. If the current liability
more than 10 percent below the weighted average of the rates
figures are derived from a valuation that follows the first day
of interest, as set forth by the Treasury Department, on 30-year
Treasury securities during the 4-year period ending on the last of the plan year, the participant and beneficiary count entries
day before the beginning of the 2025 plan year. should be derived from the counts used in that valuation in a
-64- Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500)

manner consistent with the derivation of the current liability status, attach a copy of the actuarial certification of such status
reported in column (2). to this Schedule MB. Also attach an illustration showing the
details (including year-by-year cash flow projections
Column (2) – Enter the current liability attributable to all
benefits, with subtotals for vested and nonvested benefits in demonstrating the solvency of the plan over the relevant period
the case of active participants. Enter “0” if there is no current if the plan is certified as being in critical and declining status)
liability attributable to a particular category of participants. providing support for the actuarial certification of status and
label the illustration “Schedule MB, line 4b – Illustration
Line 2c. This calculation is required under ERISA section
Supporting Actuarial Certification of Status.” For example,
103(d)(11). Do not complete if line 2a divided by line 2b(4),
if a plan is certified as being in critical status based on Code
column (2), is 70% or greater.
section 432(b)(2)(B), show the funded percentage (if
Line 3. Contributions Made to Plan. Show all employer applicable) and the projection of the funding standard account
and employee contributions for the plan year. Include for the year in which the accumulated funding deficiency
employer contributions made not later than 2½ months (or occurs. All supporting documentation should include
the later date allowed under Code section 431(c)(8) and descriptions of the assumptions used.
ERISA section 304(c)(8)) after the end of the plan year.
Note. If the plan received special financial assistance under
Show only contributions actually made to the plan by the
ERISA section 4262, the plan is deemed to be in critical status
date this Schedule MB is signed.
for plan years beginning with the plan year in which the
Add the amounts in both columns (b) and (c) and enter effective date for such assistance occurs and ending with the
both results on the total line. All contributions must be last plan year ending in 2051 in accordance with Code section
credited toward a particular plan year. 432(b)(7).
If any of the contributions reported in line 3 include Line 4c. If, in the plan year in which the Schedule MB is filed, a
amounts owed for withdrawal liability, report in line 3(d) the certification was required to be made under Code section
total withdrawal liability amounts included in line 3(b). 432(b)(3)(A)(ii) and ERISA section 305(b)(3)(A)(ii) with respect
Attach a list showing the date and amount of each to scheduled progress during the plan year for which the
withdrawal liability amount included, broken down between Schedule MB is filed, check “Yes” or “No” to reflect the
periodic amounts and lump sum amounts. For this purpose, certification. Attach documentation comparing the current
include a withdrawal liability payment as a lump sum only if status of the plan to the scheduled progress under the
the entire liability is paid in one lump sum or if the payment applicable funding improvement or rehabilitation plan to this
from an employer that paid its assessed withdrawal liability Schedule MB. Label the documentation “Schedule MB, line
in periodic installments (e.g., monthly or quarterly) in prior 4c – Documentation Regarding Progress Under Funding
years settled the remaining liability via one lump sum Improvement or Rehabilitation Plan.”
payment during the plan year. Use the format shown below Lines 4d and 4e. If Code C (Critical Status) or Code D (Critical
and label this attachment “Schedule MB, Line 3(d) – and Declining Status) was entered on line 4b, an entry on line
Withdrawal Liability Amounts.” The attachment may be 4d is required. For purposes of lines 4d and 4e, in determining
provided as a structured attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet whether benefits have been reduced, only adjustable benefits
file (CSV format). that would otherwise be protected under Code section
411(d)(6) and ERISA section 204(g) are taken into account if
Schedule MB, Line 3(d) - Withdrawal Liability Amounts
the plan is certified as being in critical status. Plans that are
Payment Periodic Lump Sum Total certified as being in critical and declining status should
Date Amounts Amounts Amounts determine whether benefits have been reduced, including all
benefits that were adjusted (only adjustable benefits that would
otherwise be protected under Code section 411(d)(6) and
ERISA section 204(g) are taken into account), any benefits that
have been suspended under Code section 432(e)(9), and any
benefit reductions due to a partition under ERISA section 4233.
For a plan that has benefits suspended under Code section
Line 4. Information on Plan Status. All multiemployer plans 432(e)(9) and/or partitioned under ERISA section 4233, attach
regardless of the number of participants must provide the a full description of the transaction and label the attachment
information indicated in accordance with these instructions. “Schedule MB, Lines 4d and 4e – Description of Benefit
Reductions Due to Suspension or Partition.” In addition,
Line 4a. All plans enter the funded percentage for monitoring
only benefit reductions that are first reflected in line 1c(3) for
the plan’s status. This is line 1b(2) divided by line 1c(3).
the current year's Schedule MB should be reported, and this
Line 4b. Enter the code for the status of the multiemployer amount should not include any amounts previously reported on
plan for the plan year, as certified by the plan actuary, (or as any prior year's Schedule MB.
elected by the plan sponsor in accordance with Code section
Line 4f. If Code C (Critical Status) or Code D (Critical and
432(b)(4)(A) and ERISA section 305(b)(4)(A)) using one of
Declining Status) was entered on line 4b you must complete
the following codes:
line 4f as follows:
Code Plan Status If the projections underlying the actuarial certification for the
E Endangered Status plan year indicate that the plan is:
S Seriously Endangered Status • Projected to emerge from critical status within 30 years,
C Critical Status enter the plan year in which the plan is projected to emerge
D Critical and Declining Status from critical status.
N Not in Endangered or Critical Status • Projected to become insolvent within 30 years, check the
box provided and enter the plan year in which the
If the plan is certified to be in endangered status, seriously
insolvency is expected. In addition, attach an illustration
endangered status, critical status, or critical and declining
Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500) -65-

showing year-by-year cash flow projections for the period If a plan is not eligible for automatic approval as set forth
beginning with the plan year and ending with the year the in the preceding paragraph, advance approval from the IRS
plan is projected to become insolvent (or, if earlier, the 19th is required if the shortfall funding method is adopted at a
year after the plan year) and a summary of the later time, if a specific computation method is changed, or if
assumptions underlying the projections. Label this the shortfall method is discontinued. In such a case there is
attachment “Schedule MB, line 4f – Cash Flow no automatic limitation on benefit increases.
Projections.” Line 6. Actuarial Assumptions. If gender-based
• Neither projected to emerge from critical status nor become assumptions are used in developing plan costs, enter those
insolvent within 30 years, enter “9999.” In addition, attach rates where appropriate in line 6. Note that requests for
an illustration showing year-by-year cash flow projections gender-based cost information do not suggest that gender-
for the 20-year period beginning with the plan year and a based benefits are legal. If unisex tables are used, enter the
summary of the assumptions underlying the projections. values in both “Male” and “Female” lines. Check “N/A” for
Label this attachment “Schedule MB, line 4f – Cash Flow line 6b if the question is not applicable.
Projections.” Attach a statement of actuarial assumptions (if not fully
Line 5. Actuarial Cost Method. Enter the primary method described by line 6) and actuarial methods used to calculate
used. If the plan uses one actuarial cost method in one year as the figures shown in lines 1 and 9 (if not fully described by
the basis of establishing an accrued liability for use under the line 5), and label the statement “Schedule MB, line 6 –
frozen initial liability method in subsequent years, answer as if Statement of Actuarial Assumptions/Methods.” The
the frozen initial liability method was used in all years. The statement must describe all actuarial assumptions used to
projected unit credit method is included in the “Accrued benefit determine the liabilities. For example, the statement for non-
(unit credit)” category of line 5c. If a method other than a traditional plans (e.g., cash balance plans) must include the
method listed on lines 5a through 5g is used, check the box for assumptions used to convert balances to annuities.
line 5i and specify the method. For example, if a modified Also attach a summary of the principal eligibility and
individual level premium method for which actuarial gains and benefit provisions on which the valuation was based,
losses are spread as a part of future normal cost is used, including the status of the plan (e.g., eligibility frozen,
check the box for 5i and describe the cost method. service/pay frozen, benefits frozen), optional forms of
Check the appropriate box for the underlying actuarial benefits, special plan provisions, including those that apply
cost method used as the basis for this plan year’s funding only to a subgroup of employees (e.g., those with imputed
standard account computation. If box 5h is checked, enter service), supplemental benefits, an identification of benefits
the period of use of the shortfall method in line 5j. For this not included in the valuation (e.g., shutdown benefits), a
purpose, enter the calendar year (YY) which includes the description of any significant events that occurred during the
first day of the plan year in which the shortfall method was year, a summary of any changes in principal eligibility or
first used. benefit provisions since the last valuation, a description (or
reasonably representative sample) of plan early retirement
Changes in funding methods include changes in actuarial
factors, and any change in actuarial assumptions or cost
cost method, changes in asset valuation method, and changes
methods and justifications for any such change (see ERISA
in the valuation date of plan costs and liabilities or of plan
assets. Changes in the funding method of a plan include not section 103(d)). Label the summary “Schedule MB, line 6 –
only changes to the overall funding method used by the plan, Summary of Plan Provisions.”
but also changes to each specific method of computation used Also, include any other information needed to disclose the
in applying the overall method. Generally, these changes actuarial position of the plan fully and fairly, including the
require IRS approval. If the change was made under Revenue weighted average retirement age.
Procedure 2000-40, 2000-2 C.B. 357, or under other automatic Line 6a. Current Liability Interest Rate. Enter the interest
approval, check “Yes” for line 5l. If approval was granted for rate used to determine current liability. The interest rate used
this plan by either an individual ruling letter or a class ruling must be in accordance with the guidelines issued by the IRS
letter, enter the date of the applicable ruling letter in line 5m. and, under PPA, must not be more than 5 percent above
Note that the plan sponsor's agreement to certain changes in and must not be more than 10 percent below the weighted
funding methods should be reported on line 8 of Schedule R average of the rates of interest, as set forth by the Treasury
(Form 5500). The information supplied in this schedule and Department, on 30-year Treasury securities during the 4-
any accompanying attachments must be complete and year period ending on the last day before the beginning of
accurate. the 2025 plan year. Enter the rate to the nearest .01 percent.
Shortfall Method: Only certain plans may elect the shortfall Line 6b. Check “Yes,” if the rates in the contract were used
funding method (see Treasury Regulations section (e.g., purchase rates at retirement).
1.412(c)(1)-2). Advance approval from the IRS for the
Line 6c. Mortality Table. The mortality table published in
election of the shortfall method of funding is NOT required if
section 1.431(c)(6)-1 of the Treasury Regulations must be used
it is first adopted for the first plan year to which Code section
in the calculation of current liability for non-disabled lives. Enter
412 applies. In addition, under PPA section 201(b), a plan
the mortality table code for non-disabled lives used for valuation
does NOT need advance approval from the IRS to adopt or
purposes as follows:
cease using the shortfall method if the plan (1) has not
adopted or ceased using the shortfall method during the 5-
year period ending on the day before the date the plan is to
use the method, and (2) is not operating under an
amortization period extension and did not operate under
such an extension during such 5-year period. In such a case,
check “Yes” for line 5l. If a plan utilizes this automatic
approval to apply the shortfall method, the benefit increase
limitations of Code section 412(c)(7) apply.
-66- Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500)

• If “Other” is checked, attach a description of the interest
rate used for this purpose and label this attachment
“Schedule MB, line 6f(1) – Description of Withdrawal
Mortality Table Code
Liability Interest Rate.”
Mortality Tables with Base Year in 1970s or Earlier ............. 1
Line 6g. Estimated Investment Return – Actuarial Value.
Mortality Tables with Base Year in 1980s ............................ 2 Enter the estimated rate of return on the actuarial value of
plan assets for the 1-year period ending on the valuation
Mortality Tables with Base Year in 1990s ............................ 3
date. For this purpose, the rate of return is determined by
Mortality table applicable to current plan year under using the formula 2I/(A + B – I), where I is the dollar amount
section 1.431(c)(6)-1 of the Income Tax Regulations .......... 4 of the investment return under the asset valuation method
used for the plan, A is the actuarial value of the assets one
RP-2014 ………………...………………….….…………....5 year ago, and B is the actuarial value of the assets on the
RP-2014 (Blue Collar) ……………………………….........6 current valuation date. Enter rates to the nearest .1 percent.
If entering a negative number, enter a minus sign (“ – ”) to
RP-2014 (adjusted to 2006 Base Year) …………….…...7
the left of the number.
Pri-2012.............................................................................. .8 Note. Use the above formula even if the actuary feels that the
result of using the formula does not represent the true
Pri-2012 (Blue Collar) ........................................................ 9
estimated rate of return on the actuarial value of plan assets for
Other ...................................................................................A the 1-year period ending on the valuation date. The actuary
may attach a statement showing both the actuary’s estimate of
None .................................................................................... 0
the rate of return and the actuary’s calculations of that rate,
Where an indicated table consists of separate tables for and label the statement “Schedule MB, line 6g – Estimated
males and females, add F to the female table (e.g., 1F). Rate of Investment Return (Actuarial Value).”
When a projection is used with a table, follow the code with
Line 6h. Estimated Investment Return – Current (Market)
“P” and the year of projection (omit the year if the projection
Value. Enter the estimated rate of return on the current value
is unrelated to a single calendar year). The identity of the
of plan assets for the 1-year period ending on the valuation
projection scale should be omitted from line 6c, but a
date. (The current value is the same as the fair market value —
description of projection techniques, including the projection
see line 1b(1) instructions.) For this purpose, the rate of return
scales used, should be included in the Schedule MB, line 6
is determined by using the formula 2I/(A + B – I), where I is
– Statement of Actuarial Assumptions/Methods. When
the dollar amount of the investment return, A is the current
an age setback or set forward is used, indicate with “ – ” or
value of the assets one year ago, and B is the current value of
“+” and the number of years. For example, if for females the
the assets on the current valuation date. Enter rates to the
1983 G.A.M. Table (solely per Revenue Ruling 95-28) with
nearest .1 percent. If entering a negative number, enter a
projection to 2022 is used with a 5-year setback, enter
minus sign (“ – ”) to the left of the number.
“2FP22-5.” If the table is not one of those listed, enter “A”
with no further notation. If the valuation assumes a maturity Note. Use the above formula even if the actuary feels that the
value to provide the post-retirement income without result of using the formula does not represent the true
separately identifying the mortality, interest and expense estimated rate of return on the current value of plan assets for
elements, enter on line 6c, under “Post-retirement,” the value the 1-year period ending on the valuation date. The actuary
of $1.00 of monthly pension beginning at the plan’s weighted may attach a statement showing both the actuary’s estimate of
average retirement age, assuming the normal form of the rate of return and the actuary’s calculations of that rate,
annuity for an unmarried person. In such a case, leave lines and label the statement “Schedule MB, line 6h – Estimated
6d and 6e blank. Rate of Investment Return (Current Value).”
Line 6d. Valuation Liability Interest Rate. Enter the Line 6i. Expense Load Included in Normal Cost. If the
assumption as to the interest rate used to determine all the normal cost reported in line 9b does not include a load for
calculated values except for current liability. If the assumed administrative or investment expenses, check the “N/A” box.
rate varies with the year, enter the weighted average of the Otherwise, provide information in lines 6i(1), 6i(2), or 6i(3),
assumed rate for 20 years following the valuation date. Enter whichever is applicable, about the expense load included in
rates to the nearest .01 percent. the normal cost. If the expense load is described as a
percentage of normal cost, the reported percentage in line
Line 6e. Salary Scale. If a uniform level annual rate of
6i(1) should be the expense load as a percent of the
salary increase is used, enter that annual rate. Otherwise,
unloaded normal cost. For example, if the expense load is
enter the level annual rate of salary increase that is
5% of the normal cost, the unloaded normal cost is $100,000
equivalent to the rate(s) of salary increase used. Enter the
and the reported normal cost is $105,000, enter 5%, not
annual rate as a percentage to the nearest .01 percent, used
4.8% (i.e., $5,000/$105,000). Enter rates to the nearest .1
for a participant from age 25 to assumed retirement age. If
percent.
the plan’s benefit formula is not related to compensation,
check the “N/A” box. Line 7. New Amortization Bases Established. List all new
amortization bases established in the current plan year (before
Lines 6f(1) and 6(f)(2). Withdrawal Liability Interest Rate.
the combining of bases, if bases were combined). Use the
In line 6f(1), check the box that describes the type of interest
following table to indicate the type of base established and
rate assumption used to determine the present value of
enter the appropriate code under “Type of base.” List
vested benefits for withdrawal liability determinations for
amortization bases and charges and/or credits as of the
employers withdrawing during the plan year. If the present
valuation date. Bases that are considered fully amortized
value of vested benefits noted above was not determined by
because there is a credit for the plan year on line 9j(3) should
the time the Form 5500 is filed, check “N/A”. In addition:
be listed. If entering a negative number, enter a minus sign (“–
• If “Single rate” is checked, enter the single rate in line ”) to the left of the number.
6f(2).
Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500) -67-

Use the format shown below and label the schedule
Code Type of Amortization Base
“Schedule MB, line 8b(1) – Schedule of Projection of
1 Experience gain or loss
Expected Benefit Payments.” The attachment may be
2 Shortfall gain or loss
provided as a structured attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet
3 Change in unfunded liability due to plan
file (CSV format).
amendment
4 Change in unfunded liability due to change in Schedule MB, line 8b(1) – Schedule of Projection of Expected
actuarial assumptions Benefit Payments
5 Change in unfunded liability due to change in
Retired
actuarial cost method Participants
6 Waiver of the minimum funding standard and
7 Initial unfunded liability (for new plan) Terminated Beneficiaries
Active Vested Receiving
8 Net investment losses and other losses related to Plan Year Participants Participants Payments Total
the virus SARS-CoV-2 or coronavirus disease
2019 (COVID) incurred in either or both of the first Current
Plan Year
two plan years ending after February 29, 2020
Current
Plan Year
For purposes of Code 8, other losses related to COVID-
+ 1
19 include (but are not limited to) losses related to
reductions in contributions, reductions in employment, and Etc.
deviations from anticipated retirement rates, as determined
by the plan sponsor. Current
Plan Year
Line 8a and 8d. Funding Waivers or Extensions. If a
+ 49
funding waiver or extension request is approved after the
Line 8b(2). Schedule of Active Participant Data. Check
Schedule MB is filed, an amended Schedule MB must be
“Yes” only if this is a multiemployer plan covered by Title IV
filed with Form 5500 to report the waiver or extension
of ERISA that has active participants.
approval (also see instructions for line 9k(1)).
If line 8b(2) is “Yes,” attach a schedule of the active plan
Line 8b(1). Schedule of Projection of Expected Benefit
participant data used in the valuation for this plan year. Use
Payments. Check “Yes” only if this is a multiemployer plan
covered by Title IV of ERISA that has 1,000 or more total the format shown below and label the attachment “Schedule
participants as of the beginning of the plan year (i.e., MB, line 8b(2) – Schedule of Active Participant Data.”
reported on line 2b(4), column (1)). The attachment may be provided as a structured
If line 8b(1) is “Yes,” in an attachment, provide a attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet file (CSV format).
projection of benefits expected to be paid separately for Expand this schedule by adding columns after the “5 to
active participants, terminated vested participants, and 9” column and before the “40 & up” column for active
retired participants and beneficiaries receiving payments, participants with total years of credited service in the
and for the entire plan (not to include expected expenses) in following ranges: 10 to 14; 15 to 19; 20 to 24; 25 to 29; 30 to
each of the next fifty years starting with the plan year and 34; and 35 to 39. For each column, enter the number of
based on the participant’s status as of the valuation date. active participants with the specified number of years of
For purposes of this projection, assume (1) no additional credited service divided according to age group. For
accruals, (2) experience (e.g., termination, mortality, and participants with partial years of credited service, truncate
retirement) is in line with valuation assumptions, (3) no new the total number of years of credited service. Years of
entrants, and (4) benefits are paid in the form assumed for credited service are the years credited under the plan’s
valuation purposes. benefit formula.
Schedule MB, line 8b(2) – Schedule of Active Participant Data
YEARS OF CREDITED SERVICE
Under 1 1 to 4 5 to 9 40 & up
Average Average Average Average
Attained
N
Age
No. Comp. Accrued No. Comp. Accrued No. Comp. Accrued N o. Comp. Accrued
Mon. Ben. Mon. Ben. Mon. Ben. Mon. Ben.
Under 25
25 to 29
30 to 34
35 to 39
40 to 44
45 to 49
50 to 54
55 to 59
60 to 64
65 to 69
70 & up
-68- Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500)

Plans reporting 1,000 or more active participants on line Current
plan year +
2b(3)(c), column (1), and using compensation to determine
9
benefits must also provide average compensation data. For
each grouping, enter the average compensation of the active Line 9. Shortfall Method. Under the shortfall method of
participants in that group. For this purpose, compensation is funding, the normal cost in the funding standard account is
the compensation taken into account for each participant the charge per unit of production (or per unit of service)
under the plan’s benefit formula, limited to the amount multiplied by the actual number of units of production (or
defined under section 401(a)(17) of the Code. Do not enter units of service) that occurred during the plan year. Each
amortization installment in the funding standard account is
the average compensation in any grouping that contains
fewer than 20 participants.
similarly calculated.
Plans reporting 1,000 or more active participants on line Lines 9c and 9h. Amortization Charges and Credits. If
there are any amortization charges or credits, attach a
2b(3)(c), column (1), must also provide average accrued
maintenance schedule of funding standard account bases
monthly benefits, as of the valuation date, that are payable
at normal retirement age. For each grouping, enter the and label the schedule “Schedule MB, lines 9c and 9h –
average accrued monthly benefit that is payable at normal Schedule of Funding Standard Account Bases.” The
retirement age for the active participants in that group. Do attachment should clearly indicate the type of base (i.e.,
not enter the average accrued monthly benefit in any original unfunded liability, amendments, actuarial losses,
grouping that contains fewer than 20 participants. etc.), the outstanding balance of each base, the number of
years remaining in the amortization period, and the
General Rule. In general, data to be shown in each
amortization amount. If bases were combined in the current
age/service bin includes:
year, the attachment should show information on bases both
1. the number of active participants in the age/service prior to and after the combining of bases.
bin,
The outstanding balance and amortization charges and
2. the average compensation of the active participants in
credits must be calculated as of the valuation date for the
the age/service bin, and
plan year.
3. the average accrued monthly benefit payable at
normal retirement age of the active participants in the Line 9c(3) should only include information related to the
age/service bin, using $0 for anyone who has no accrued amortization bases extended and amortized using the
monthly benefit. interest rate under section 6621(b) of the Code.
In general, information should be determined as of the Line 9d. Interest as Applicable. Interest as applicable
should be charged to the last day of the plan year.
valuation date. Average accrued monthly benefits may be
determined as of either: Line 9f. Note that the credit balance or funding deficiency at
1. the valuation date or the end of “Year X” should be equal to the credit balance or
2. the day immediately preceding the valuation date. funding deficiency at the beginning of “Year X+1.” If such
credit balances or funding deficiencies are not equal, attach
Line 8b(3). Schedule of Projection of Employer
an explanation and label the attachment “Schedule MB, line
Contributions and Withdrawal Liability Payments. Check
9f – Explanation of Prior Year Credit Balance/Funding
“Yes” only if this is a multiemployer plan covered by Title IV
Deficiency Discrepancy.” For example, if the difference is
of ERISA that has 1,000 or more total participants as of the
because contributions for a prior year that were not
beginning of the plan year (i.e., reported on line 2b(4),
previously reported are received this plan year, attach a
column (1)). If line 8b(3) is “Yes,” in an attachment,
listing of the amounts and dates of such contributions. As
separately provide a projection of employer contributions
another example, if the difference is due to the application of
and withdrawal liability payments expected to be received for
funding relief under the Preservation of Access to Care for
the entire plan in each of the next ten plan year starting with
Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 (PRA
the plan year. For purposes of this projection, use the
2010), Pub. L. No. 111-192, the attachment should show
assumption used to determine the plan’s status under line
how the information on the Schedule MB filed for any
4b. Use the format shown below and label the schedule
previous plan year would have differed if it had reflected
“Schedule MB, line 8b(3) – Schedule of Projection of
application of the special funding relief in accordance with
Employer Contributions and Withdrawal Liability
published guidance (to the extent that the plan sponsor has
Payments.” The attachment may be provided as a
applied the special funding relief).
structured attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet file (CSV
Line 9j(1). ERISA Full Funding Limitation. Instructions for
format).
this line are reserved pending published guidance.
Schedule MB, line 8b(3) – Schedule of Projection of Employer Line 9j(2). “RPA ’94” Override. Instructions for this line are
Contributions and Withdrawal Liability Payments
reserved pending published guidance.
Withdrawal
Employer Liability Line 9j(3). Full Funding Credit. Enter the excess of (1) the
Plan Year Contributions Payments Total accumulated funding deficiency, disregarding the credit
balance and contributions for the current year, if any, over
Current
Plan Year (2) the greater of lines 9j(1) or 9j(2).
Current Line 9k(1). Waived Funding Deficiency Credit. Enter a
Plan Year + credit for a waived funding deficiency for the current plan
1 year (Code section 431(b)(3)(C)). If a waiver of a funding
deficiency is pending, report a funding deficiency. If the
Etc.
waiver is granted after Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF is filed,
file an amended Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF, as applicable,
with an amended Schedule MB to report the funding waiver
Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500) -69-

(see Amended Return/Report in the instructions for Form decreased by the year end amortization amount based on
5500 or line B – Box for Amended Return/Report in the the amortization interest rate from the prior plan year.
instructions for Form 5500-SF, as applicable).
Line 9o(3). Enter the sum of lines 9o(1) and 9o(2)(b) (each
Line 9k(2). Other Credits. Enter a credit in the case of a adjusted with interest at the valuation rate to the current
plan for which the accumulated funding deficiency is valuation date, if necessary).
determined under the funding standard account if such plan
Note. The net outstanding balance of amortization charges
year follows a plan year for which such deficiency was
and credits minus the prior year’s credit balance minus the
determined under the alternative minimum funding standard.
amount on line 9o(3) (each adjusted with interest at the
Line 9o. Reconciliation Account. The reconciliation valuation rate, if necessary) generally equals the unfunded
account is made up of those components that upset the liability.
balance equation of Treasury Regulations section
Line 10. Contribution Necessary to Avoid Deficiency.
1.412(c)(3)-1(b). Valuation assets must not be adjusted by Enter the amount from line 9n. If applicable, file IRS Form
the reconciliation account balance when computing the 5330, Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit
required minimum funding. Plans, with the IRS to pay the excise tax on the funding
Line 9o(1). This amount is equal to the prior year’s deficiency. There is a penalty for not filing the Form 5330 on
accumulated reconciliation amount due to prior waived time.
funding deficiencies, increased with interest at the valuation
Line 11. In accordance with ERISA section 103(d)(3), attach
rate to the current valuation date.
a justification for any change in actuarial assumptions for the
Line 9o(2)(a). If an amortization extension is being current plan year and label the attachment “Schedule MB,
amortized at an interest rate that differs from the valuation line 11 – Justification for Change in Actuarial
rate, enter the prior year’s “reconciliation amortization Assumptions.”
extension outstanding balance,” increased with interest at
the valuation interest rate to the current valuation date, and
-70- Instructions for Schedule MB (Form 5500)

(b) Professional Employer Organization Plan (PEO Plan).
2025 Instructions for Schedule MEP
Check this box if the Schedule MEP is being filed for a defined
(Form 5500) contribution MEP that is a Professional Employer Organization
Plan (PEO Plan) and complete Part II. For this purpose, a
Multiple-Employer Retirement Plan
professional employer organization (PEO) is a human-resource
Information company that contractually assumes certain employer
responsibilities of its client employers. A defined contribution
General Instructions pension plan sponsored by a PEO is a MEP that is a PEO Plan
if the PEO: (1) performs substantial employment functions on
The Schedule MEP provides information about multiple- behalf of its client employers and maintains adequate records
employer pension plans (MEPs). It consists of three parts. All relating to such functions; (2) has substantial control over the
MEPs must complete Parts I and II to indicate the specific type functions and activities of the MEP as the plan sponsor, the plan
of plan or arrangement, to complete a list of participating administrator, and a named fiduciary and continues to have plan
employers, and to provide certain required information. obligations to MEP participants after the client employer no
Part III only needs to be completed by pooled employer longer contracts with the organization; (3) ensures that each
plans to answer questions specific to pooled employer plans. client employer that adopts the MEP acts directly as an
employer of at least one employee that is a participant covered
Remember to check the Schedule MEP box on the Form
under the MEP; (4) ensures that participation in the MEP is
5500 (Part II, line 10a(5)) if a Schedule MEP is attached to the
available only to employees and former employees of the PEO
Form 5500.
and client employers and to employees and former employees
Who Must File
of former client employers who became participants during the
Schedule MEP (Form 5500) must be attached to a Form 5500 contract period between the PEO and former client employers,
or Form 5500-SF filed for a pension plan that checks the and their beneficiaries; and (5) meets any other applicable
“multiple-employer plan” box on Part I of Form 5500 or Form conditions under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(c).
5500-SF, to provide information specific to such plan, including Do not check this box for a defined benefit plan sponsored
a list of participating employers and related information. by a PEO. See instructions for element (d) Other Multiple-
Multiple-employer welfare plans are not required to file the Employer Pension Plan.
Schedule MEP but must include an attachment to report the
(c) Pooled Employer Plan. Check this box if the Schedule MEP
participating employer information in accordance with the
is being filed for a defined contribution MEP that is a pooled
instructions for the “multiple-employer plan” box on Part I of
employer plan and complete Parts II and III. A plan operated by
Form 5500.
a “pooled plan provider” is a pooled employer plan if: (1) the
Specific Instructions plan is an individual account plan established or maintained for
the purpose of providing benefits to the employees of two or
Part I Type of Multiple-Employer Pension Plan
more employers; (2) the plan is a qualified retirement plan, a
Line 1. For purposes of completing the Schedule MEP, from plan that consists of annuity contracts described in Code section
among (a) to (d) described below, check the box on line 1 that 403(b) that also meets the requirements of Code section
best describes the type of plan. Filers must check one of the 403(b)(15), or a plan funded entirely with individual retirement
four boxes. accounts (IRA-based plan); and (3) the terms of the plan meet
(a) Association Retirement Plan. Check this box if the certain requirements set forth in ERISA section 3(43).
Schedule MEP is being filed for a defined contribution MEP that A “pooled plan provider” with respect to a pooled employer
is an Association Retirement Plan and complete Part II. A plan is defined in ERISA section 3(44) and Code section 413(e)
defined contribution pension plan sponsored by a bona fide to mean a person that:
group or association of employers is a MEP that is an
1. is designated by the terms of the plan as a named
Association Retirement Plan if: (1) the group or association has
fiduciary under ERISA, as the plan administrator, and as the
at least one substantial business purpose unrelated to offering
person responsible for performing all administrative duties that
and providing employee benefits to its employer members and
are reasonably necessary to ensure that the plan meets the
their employees; (2) each employer member directly acts as an
Code requirements for tax-favored treatment and the
employer of at least one employee participating in the MEP; (3)
requirements of ERISA and for ensuring that each employer in
the group or association has a formal organizational structure;
the plan takes actions as the Secretary of Labor or the pooled
(4) the group or association is controlled by its employer
plan provider determines necessary for the plan to meet Code
members; (5) employer members of the group or association
and ERISA requirements, including providing to the pooled plan
have a commonality of interest; (6) plan participation is limited to
provider any disclosures or other information that the Secretary
employees and former employees of its employer members, and
may require or that the pooled plan provider otherwise
their beneficiaries; (7) the group or association must not be a
determines are necessary to administer the plan or to allow the
bank or trust company, insurance issuer, broker-dealer, or other
plan to meet Code and ERISA requirements;
similar financial services firm (including a pension record keeper
or third-party administrator) or owned or controlled by such an
2. acknowledges in writing its status as a named fiduciary
under ERISA and as the plan administrator;
entity or any subsidiary or affiliate of such an entity, other than
to the extent such an entity, subsidiary, or affiliate participates in 3. is responsible for ensuring that all persons who handle
the group or association in its capacity as an employer member; plan assets or are plan fiduciaries are bonded in accordance
and (8) the group or association meets any other applicable with ERISA requirements; and
conditions under 29 CFR 2510.3-55(b). 4. registers as a pooled plan provider by filing a Form PR in
Do not check this box for a defined benefit plan sponsored accordance with 29 CFR 2510.3-44.
by a bona fide group or association of employers. See
Note. The term “pooled employer plan” does not include a
instructions for (d) Other Multiple-Employer Pension Plan.
multiemployer plan or plan maintained by employers that have a
commonality of interest other than having adopted the plan. The
Instructions for Schedule MEP (Form 5500) -71-

term also does not include a plan established before January 1, employer and participant contributions) made by all participating
2021, which is the effective date of the SECURE Act provisions employers during the plan year. The percentage may be
allowing pooled employer plans to begin operating, unless the rounded to the nearest whole percentage. Any employer that
plan administrator elects to have the plan treated as a pooled was obligated to make contributions to the plan for the plan
employer plan and the plan meets the Code and ERISA year, who made contributions to the plan for the plan year, or
requirements applicable to a pooled employer plan established whose employees were covered under the plan for the plan year
on or after such date, including the requirement that the pooled is a “participating employer” for this purpose. If a participating
plan provider file a Form PR with the Department of Labor employer made no contributions for the plan year (including
before beginning to operate any pooled employer plan(s). participant contributions), enter “-0-” on line 2c.
The pooled plan provider must be the same as the person Line 2d. If this filing is for a defined contribution MEP, enter the
identified as the plan sponsor and administrator in Part II of aggregate account balances for each participating employer,
the Form 5500 and plan administrator on line C of Schedule determined as the sum of the account balances of the
MEP. All information for the pooled employer plan and the employees of such employer (and the beneficiaries of such
pooled plan provider operating the plan reported on the Form employees). For line 2d, the aggregate account balance
5500, including Schedule MEP, must match the information attributable to each employer is the sum of the account
reported on the Form PR. Failure to use consistent identifying balances of the employees of such employer and their
information could result in correspondence from the Department beneficiaries at the end of the year. Consistent with the
of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service. information on the schedule of the assets for the plan as a
(d) Other Multiple-Employer Pension Plan. Check this box, whole, use the end-of-year valuation to calculate the amount of
the aggregate account balances of each employer. The
describe the type of MEP (e.g., defined benefit MEP or
amounts can be rounded to the nearest dollar, consistent with
collectively-bargained multiple-employer pension plan that did
other asset reporting on the forms and schedules.
not elect to be treated as a multiemployer plan) and complete
Part II of the Schedule MEP if the Schedule MEP is being filed Line 2e. If the plan includes any individuals not participating
for a plan that is maintained by more than one employer and is through an employer or who are individual working owners,
not one of the plans already described. answer “Yes” to line 2e and complete lines 2f and 2g. Do not
identify such individuals on line 2a. For purposes of completing
Note. A MEP can be collectively bargained and collectively
this schedule, a “working owner” has the same meaning as in 29
funded, but if covered by PBGC termination insurance, must
have properly elected before September 27, 1981, not to be CFR 2510.3-55(d)(2).
treated as a multiemployer plan under Code section 414(f)(5) or Line 2f. If the answer to line 2e is “Yes,” enter a good faith
ERISA sections 3(37)(E) and 4001(a)(3) and have not revoked estimate of the percentage of total contributions made by all
that election or made an election to be treated as a such individuals that are not listed on line 2a. The amounts
multiemployer plan under Code section 414(f)(6) or ERISA listed in line 2c and line 2f must equal 100 percent (with a
section 3(37)(G). permitted variance of less than 1 percent due to rounding).
Part II Multiple-Employer Plan Participating Employer Line 2g. If the answer to line 2e is “Yes,” enter the aggregate
Information. account balances for all individuals who are not listed on line 2a.
All MEPs (including association retirement plans, PEO plans, Part III. Pooled Employer Plan Information.
pooled employer plans, and other multiple-employer pension If this filing is for a pooled employer plan, you must complete
plans) must complete Part II to report the information for each Part III.
participating employer in the MEP filing the Form 5500. All
Line 3. To be able to operate one or more pooled employer
MEPs complete lines 2a-2c. Defined contribution MEPs also
plans, pooled plan providers must satisfy a number of
complete line 2d.
conditions, including compliance with the Form PR (Pooled Plan
Complete as many entries as needed to list the required Provider Registration) requirements. See 29 CFR 2510.3-44.
information for each participating employer that is not an
Line 3a. Pooled employer plans must answer whether the
individual person.
pooled plan provider (identified as the plan sponsor and
Note. If there are any working owners without employees administrator in Part II of the Form 5500 and line C of Schedule
participating in the plan, answer “Yes” to line 2e and provide the MEP) has complied with the Form PR registration requirements.
percentage of total contribution and aggregate account balance
Line 3b. If line 3a is “Yes,” enter in line 3b the Receipt
information for all such individuals on lines 2f and 2g, without
Confirmation Code (ACK ID) for the most recent Form PR that
providing names or other identifying information.
was required to be filed under the Form PR filing requirements.
Line 2a. Enter the name of each participating employer in line The ACK ID is the acknowledgement code generated by the
2a. system in response to a completed Form PR being submitted.
Line 2b. Enter the EIN of each participating employer. The instructions to the Form PR advise the pooled plan
Do not enter an SSN in lieu of an EIN. The Schedule MEP provider that it must keep, under ERISA section 107, the
is open to public inspection, and the contents are public electronic receipt for the Form PR filing as part of the records of
information and are subject to publication on the Internet. the pooled employer plans operated by the pooled plan
Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of an SSN or any provider.
portion thereof on a Schedule MEP may result in the rejection of Failure to enter a valid Receipt Confirmation Code (ACK ID)
the filing. for the pooled plan provider’s most recent Form PR will subject
Line 2c. Enter a good faith estimate of each participating the Form 5500 filing to rejection as incomplete.
employer’s percentage of the total contributions (including
-72- Instructions for Schedule MEP (Form 5500)

Part I – Distributions
2025 Instructions for Schedule R
“Distribution” includes only payments of benefits during the
(Form 5500) plan year, in cash, in kind, by purchase for the distributee of an
Retirement Plan Information annuity contract from an insurance company, or by distribution
of life insurance contracts. It does not include:
1. Corrective distributions of excess deferrals, excess
General Instructions
contributions, or excess aggregate contributions, or the income
Purpose of Schedule allocable to any of these amounts;
2. Distributions of automatic contributions under Code
Schedule R (Form 5500) reports certain information on
section 414(w);
retirement plan distributions, funding, nondiscrimination,
3. The distribution of elective deferrals or the return of
coverage, and the adoption of amendments, as well as certain
employee contributions to correct excess annual additions
information on single-employer and multiemployer defined
under Code section 415, or the gains attributable to these
benefit plans.
amounts; and
Electronic Attachments. All attachments to Schedule R must
4. A loan deemed as a distribution under Code section
be properly identified, must include the name of the plan, plan
72(p).
sponsor’s EIN, and plan number. Place “Schedule R” and the
Schedule R line number at the top of each attachment to Note. It does, however, include a distribution of a plan loan
offset amount as defined in Treasury Regulations section
identify the information to which the attachment relates. Do not
1.402(c)-2, Q&A 9(b).
include attachments that contain a visible social security
number. The Schedule R and its attachments are open to Line 1. Enter the total value of all distributions made during the
public inspection, and the contents are subject to publication year (regardless of when the distribution began) in any form
on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the inclusion of a other than cash, annuity contracts issued by an insurance
visible social security number or any portion thereof on an company, distribution of life insurance contracts, marketable
attachment may result in the rejection of the filing. securities within the meaning of Code section 731(c)(2), or
Who Must File plan loan offset amounts. Do not include eligible rollover
distributions paid directly to eligible retirement plans in a direct
Schedule R must be attached to a Form 5500 filed for both tax-
rollover under Code section 401(a)(31) unless such direct
qualified and nonqualified pension benefit plans. Schedule R
rollovers include property other than that enumerated in the
should not be completed for a DCG reporting group as each
preceding sentence.
individual plan participating in the DCG reports Part VII IRS
Line 2. Enter the EIN(s) of any payor(s) (other than the plan
Compliance information on Schedule DCG. The parts of
sponsor or plan administrator on line 2b or 3b of the Form
Schedule R that must be completed depend on whether the
5500) who paid benefits reportable on IRS Form 1099-R on
plan is subject to the minimum funding standards of Code
behalf of the plan to participants or beneficiaries during the
section 412 or ERISA section 302 and the type of plan. See
plan year. This is the EIN that appears on the IRS Forms
line item requirements under Specific Instructions for more
1099-R that are issued to report the payments. Include the EIN
details.
of the trust if different than that of the sponsor or plan
Exception: Schedule R should not be completed when the administrator. If more than two payors made such payments
Form 5500 Annual Return/Report is filed for a pension plan
during the year, enter the EINs of the two payors who paid the
that uses, as the sole funding vehicle for providing benefits,
greatest dollar amounts during the year. For purposes of this
individual retirement accounts or annuities (as described in
line 2, take into account all payments made during the plan
Code section 408). See the Form 5500 instructions for Limited
year, in cash or in kind, that are reportable on IRS Form 1099-
Pension Plan Reporting for more information.
R, regardless of when the payments began, but take into
Check the Schedule R box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line account payments from an insurance company under an
10a(1)) if a Schedule R is attached to the Form 5500. annuity only in the year the contract was purchased.
Specific Instructions Line 3. Enter the number of living or deceased participants
whose benefits under the plan were distributed during the plan
Lines A, B, C, and D. This information must be the same as
year in the form of a single-sum distribution. For this purpose,
reported in Part II of the Form 5500 to which this Schedule R is
a distribution of a participant’s benefits will not fail to be a
attached.
single-sum distribution merely because, after the date of the
Do not use a social security number in line D instead of an
distribution, the plan makes a supplemental distribution as a
EIN. Schedule R and its attachments are open to public
result of earnings or other adjustments made after the date of
inspection, and the contents are public information and are
the single-sum distribution. Also include any participants
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
whose benefits were distributed in the form of a direct rollover
concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any portion
to the trustee or custodian of a qualified plan or individual
thereof on Schedule R or any of its attachments may result in the
retirement account.
rejection of the filing.
Part II – Funding Information
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax,
or by mail depending on how soon you need to use the Complete Part II only if the plan is subject to the minimum
EIN. For more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing funding requirements of Code section 412 or ERISA section
Requirement. The EBSA does not issue EINs. 302.
“Participant” for purposes of Schedule R, means any All qualified defined benefit and defined contribution plans
present or former employee who at any time during the are subject to the minimum funding requirements of Code
plan year had an accrued benefit in the plan (account section 412 unless they are described in the exceptions listed
balance in a defined contribution plan). under Code section 412(e)(2). These exceptions include profit-
sharing or stock bonus plans, insurance contract plans
described in Code section 412(e)(3), and certain plans to
Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500) -73-

which no employer contributions are made. Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans,
with the IRS to pay the excise tax on the deficiency. There is a
Nonqualified employee pension benefit plans are subject to
penalty for not filing IRS Form 5330 on time.
the minimum funding requirements of ERISA section 302
unless specifically exempted under ERISA sections 4(a) or Line 7. Check “Yes” if the minimum required contribution
301(a). remaining in line 6c will be made not later than 8½ months after
the end of the plan year. If “Yes,” and contributions are actually
The employer or plan administrator of a single-employer or
made by this date, then there will be no reportable deficiency
multiple-employer defined benefit plan that is subject to the
and IRS Form 5330 will not need to be filed.
minimum funding requirements must file Schedule SB as an
attachment to Form 5500. Schedule MB is filed for Line 8. Revenue Procedure 2017-56, 2017-44 IRB 465 and
multiemployer defined benefit plans and certain money Revenue Procedure 2000-40, 2000-2 C.B. 357, providing for
purchase defined contribution plans (whether they are single- automatic approval for a change in funding method for a plan
employer or multiemployer plans). However, Schedule MB is year, generally do not apply unless the plan administrator or an
not required to be filed for a money purchase defined authorized representative of the plan sponsor explicitly agrees
contribution plan that is subject to the minimum funding to the change. If a change in funding method made under such
requirements unless the plan is currently amortizing a waiver of a revenue procedure (or a class ruling letter) is to be applicable
the minimum funding requirements. for the current plan year, this line generally must be checked
‘‘Yes.” In certain situations, however, the requirement that the
Line 4. Check ‘‘Yes’’ if, for purposes of computing the
plan administrator or an authorized representative of the plan
minimum funding requirements for the plan year, the plan
sponsor agree to the change in funding method will be satisfied
administrator is making an election intended to satisfy the
if the plan administrator or an authorized representative of the
requirements of Code section 412(d)(2) or ERISA section
plan sponsor is made aware of the change. In these situations,
302(d)(2). Under Code section 412(d)(2) and ERISA section
this line must be checked “N/A.” See section 6.01 of Revenue
302(d)(2), a plan administrator may elect to have any
Procedure 2017-56 and section 6.01(2) of Revenue Procedure
amendment, adopted after the close of the plan year for which
2000-40. If the plan’s change in funding method is not made
it applies, treated as having been made on the first day of the
under a revenue procedure or other authority providing
plan year if all of the following requirements are met:
automatic approval which requires plan sponsor agreement, or
1. The amendment is adopted no later than two and one-
to a class ruling letter (e.g., it is under a regulation, then this
half months (two years for a multiemployer plan) after the close
line should be checked “N/A.”
of such plan year;
2. The amendment does not reduce the accrued benefit of Part III – Amendments
any participant determined as of the beginning of such plan Line 9.
year; and
• Check “No” if no amendments were adopted during this
3. The amendment does not reduce the accrued benefit of
plan year that increased or decreased the value of
any participant determined as of the adoption of the
benefits.
amendment unless the plan administrator notified the
• Check “Increase” if an amendment was adopted during
Secretary of the Treasury of the amendment and the Secretary
the plan year that increased the value of benefits in any
either approved the amendment or failed to disapprove the
way. This includes an amendment providing for an
amendment within 90 days after the date the notice was filed.
increase in the amount of benefits or rate of accrual, more
See Treasury Temporary Regulations section 11.412(c)- generous lump sum factors, COLAs, more rapid vesting,
7(b) for details on when and how to make the election and additional payment forms, or earlier eligibility for some
what information to include on the statement of election, which benefits.
must be filed with the Form 5500 Annual Return/Report. • Check “Decrease” if an amendment was adopted during
Line 5. If a money purchase defined contribution plan the plan year that decreased the value of benefits in any
(including a target benefit plan) has received a waiver of the way. This includes a decrease in future accruals, closure
minimum funding standard, and the waiver is currently being of the plan to new employees, or accruals being frozen for
amortized, complete lines 3, 9, and 10 of Schedule MB. See some or all participants.
instructions for Schedule MB. Attach Schedule MB to Form • If the amendments that were adopted increased the
5500. The Schedule MB for a money purchase defined value of some benefits but decreased the value of others,
contribution plan does not need to be signed by an enrolled check “Both.”
actuary.
Part IV – ESOP Information
Line 6a. The minimum required contribution for a money
Line 11b. A loan is a “back-to-back loan” if the following
purchase defined contribution plan (including a target benefit
requirements are satisfied:
plan) for a plan year is the amount required to be contributed
for the year under the formula set forth in the plan document. If 1. The loan from the employer corporation to the ESOP
there is an accumulated funding deficiency for a prior year that qualifies as an exempt loan under DOL regulations at 29 CFR
2550.408b-3 and under Treasury Regulations sections
has not been waived, that amount should also be included as
54.4975-7 and 54.4975-11; and
part of the contribution required for the current year.
Line 6b. Include all contributions for the plan year made not 2. The repayment terms of the loan from the sponsoring
later than 8½ months after the end of the plan year. Show only corporation to the ESOP are substantially similar to the
contributions actually made to the plan by the date the form is repayment terms of the loan from the commercial lender to the
filed. For example, do not include receivable contributions for sponsoring employer.
this purpose. Part V – Additional Employer Information for
Line 6c. If the minimum required contribution exceeds the Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans
contributions for the plan year made not later than 81/2 months If this is not a multiemployer plan, skip this Part.
after the end of the plan year, the excess is an accumulated
funding deficiency for the plan year. File IRS Form 5330,
-74- Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500)

Required attachments. Multiemployer defined benefit plans social security number. The Form 5500 is open to public
that are in Endangered Status, Critical Status, or Critical and inspection, and the contents are public information and are
Declining Status must attach a summary of their Funding subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
Improvement Plan or Rehabilitation Plan (as updated, if concerns, the inclusion of a social security number or any
applicable) and also any update to a Funding Improvement portion thereof on this line may result in the rejection of the
Plan or Rehabilitation Plan. filing.
The summary of any Funding Improvement Plan or EINs can be obtained from the IRS online, by fax, or by
Rehabilitation Plan must reflect such plan in effect at the end of mail depending on when you need to use the EIN. For more
the plan year (whether the original Funding Improvement Plan information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement. The
or Rehabilitation Plan or as updated) and must include a EBSA does not issue EINs.
description of the various contribution and benefit schedules
Line 13c. Dollar Amount Contributed. Enter the total dollar
that are being provided to the bargaining parties and any other
amount contributed to the plan by the employer for all covered
actions taken in connection with the Funding Improvement
workers in all locations for the plan year. Do not include the
Plan or Rehabilitation Plan, such as use of the shortfall funding
portion of an aggregated contribution that is for another plan,
method or extension of an amortization period. The summary
such as a welfare benefit plan, a defined contribution pension
must also identify the first year and the last year of the Funding plan or another defined benefit pension plan.
Improvement Period or the Rehabilitation Period. If an
Line 13d. Collective Bargaining Agreement Expiration
extended Funding Improvement Period (of 13 or 18 years) or
Date. Enter the date on which the employer’s collective
Rehabilitation Period (of 13 years) applies because of an
bargaining agreement expires. If the employer has more than
election under section 205 of the Worker, Retiree, and
one collective bargaining agreement requiring contributions to
Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (“WRERA”), the summary
the plan, check the box and include, as an attachment, the
must include a statement to that effect and the date that the
expiration date of each collective bargaining agreement
election was filed with the IRS.
(regardless of the amount of contributions arising from such
The summary must also include a schedule of the expected
agreement). Label the attachment: “Schedule R, line 13d –
annual progress for the funded percentage or other relevant
Collective Bargaining Agreement Expiration Date.” Include
factors under the Funding Improvement Plan or Rehabilitation
the plan name and the sponsor’s name and EIN.
Plan. If the sponsor of a multiemployer plan in Critical Status
Line 13e. Contribution Rate Information. Enter the
has determined that, based on reasonable actuarial
contribution rate (in dollars and cents) per contribution base
assumptions and upon exhaustion of all reasonable measures,
unit in line 13e(1) and the base unit measure in line 13e(2).
the plan cannot emerge from Critical Status by the end of the
Indicate whether the base unit is measured on an hourly,
Rehabilitation Period as described in Code section
weekly, unit-of-production, or other basis. If “other,” specify the
432(e)(3)(A)(ii), the summary must include an explanation of
base unit measure used. If the contribution rate changed
the alternatives considered, why the plan is not reasonably
during the plan year, enter the last contribution rate in effect for
expected to emerge from Critical Status by the end of the
the plan year.
Rehabilitation Period, and when, if ever, it is expected to
emerge from Critical Status under the Rehabilitation Plan. If the employer has different contribution rates for different
classifications of employees or different places of business,
The plan sponsor is required to annually update a Funding
check the box in the first line of line 13e and list in an
Improvement Plan or Rehabilitation Plan that was adopted in a
attachment each contribution rate and corresponding base unit
prior year. The update must be filed as an attachment to the
measure under which the employer made contributions
Schedule R. The update attachment must identify the
(regardless of the amount of contributions resulting from each
modifications made to the Funding Improvement Plan or
rate). Label the attachment: “Schedule R, line 13e –
Rehabilitation Plan during the plan year, including contribution
Information on Contribution Rates and Base Units.” Include
increases, benefit reductions, or other actions.
the plan name and the sponsor’s name and EIN.
The attachment described above must be labeled
Line 14. Enter the number of deferred vested and retired
“Schedule R, Summary of Funding Improvement Plan,” or
participants (inactive participants), as of the beginning of the
“Schedule R, Summary of Rehabilitation Plan” as
plan year, whose contributing employer is no longer making
appropriate, and if applicable, “Schedule R, Update of
contributions to the plan. Generally, if there has been a prior
Funding Improvement Plan or Rehabilitation Plan.” Each
withdrawal, unless all former vested participants of the
attachment must also include the plan name, the plan
withdrawn employer have been reemployed with a currently
sponsor’s name and EIN, and the plan number.
contributing employer, this line should not be zero. Plans must
Line 13. This line should be completed only by multiemployer use one of the following counting methods to count these
defined benefit pension plans that are subject to the minimum
inactive participants.
funding standards (see Code section 412 and Part 3 of Title I
1. Under the last contributing employer method, count
of ERISA). Enter the information on lines 13a through 13e for
only those inactive participants whose last contributing
any employer that, for the plan year, (1) contributed more than
employer had withdrawn from the plan by the beginning of the
five (5) percent of the plan’s total contributions or (2) was one
relevant plan year. Disregard any inactive participants whose
of the top-ten highest contributors. List employers in
most recent employers had not withdrawn from the plan. Thus,
descending order according to the dollar amount of their
for the limited purposes of line 14 and notwithstanding any
contributions to the plan. Complete as many entries as are
contrary definition of such inactive participants applicable
necessary to list all employers that are required to be reported.
elsewhere, inactive participants of employers who have not
Line 13a. Enter the name of the employer contributing to the withdrawn from the plan should not be included in these
plan. numbers;
Line 13b. Enter the EIN of the employer contributing to the 2. Under the alternative method count only those inactive
plan. Do not enter a social security number in lieu of an EIN;
participants whose last contributing employer and all prior
therefore, ensure that you have the employer’s EIN and not a
contributing employers had withdrawn from the plan by the
Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500) -75-

beginning of the relevant plan year. Under this method, the aggregate amount.
plan would review the list of all contributing employers
The definitions of withdrawal are those contained in ERISA
(employers that had not withdrawn from the plan by the
Section 4203. If the plan is in the building and construction,
beginning of the relevant plan year), and include on line 14 entertainment, or another industry that has special withdrawal
only those inactive participants who had no covered service rules, withdrawing employers should only be counted if the
with any of these employers; withdrawal adheres to the special rules applying to its specific
3. Under the reasonable approximation method, a plan industry.
that is unable to use the last contributing employer method or
Line 17. If assets and liabilities from another plan were
the alternative method, must make a reasonable, good faith
transferred to or merged with the assets and liabilities of this
effort to count inactive participants to satisfy the requirements
plan during the 2025 plan year, check the box and provide the
of ERISA section 103(f)(2)(C) and provide an attachment that
following information as an attachment. The attachment should
explains the plan’s approximation method. The explanation
include the names and employer identification numbers of all
must include a description of the data and a breakdown
plans that transferred assets and liabilities to, or merged with,
describing the number of clearly identified inactive participants
this plan. For each plan, including this plan, the attachment
and the number of estimated inactive participants.
should also include the actuarial valuation of the total assets
Note. Withdrawal liability payments are not to be treated as and total liabilities for the year preceding the transfer or
contributions for the purpose of determining the number of merger, based on the most recent data available as of the day
inactive participants for line 14. before the first day of the 2025 plan year. Label the attachment
Line 14a. Enter the number of inactive participants described “Schedule R, line 17 – Information on Assets and
in the line 14 instructions for the current plan year. The current Liabilities Transferred to or Merged with This Plan” and
include the plan name and the plan sponsor’s name and EIN.
plan year is the plan year to which the Form 5500 relates.
Part VI – Additional Information for Single-Employer
Line 14b. Enter the number of inactive participants described
in the line 14 instructions for the plan year immediately and Multiemployer Defined Benefit Pension Plans
preceding the current plan year. Check the box if the number Line 18. If any liabilities to participants or their beneficiaries
reported on line 14b differs from the number reported on line under the plan at the end of the plan year consist of liabilities
14a for the plan year immediately preceding the current plan under two (2) or more plans as of the last day of the plan year
year. If the box is checked, provide an attachment with an immediately before the 2025 plan year, check the box and
explanation of the reason for the change. provide the following information as an attachment. The
Line 14c. Enter the number of inactive participants described attachment should include the names, employer identification
in the line 14 instructions for the second preceding plan year. numbers, and plan numbers of all plans, including the current
Check the box if the number reported on line 14c differs from plan, that provided a portion of liabilities of the participants and
the number reported on line 14b for the plan year immediately beneficiaries in question. The attachment should also include
preceding the current plan year. If the box is checked, provide the funded percentage of each plan as of the last day of the
an attachment with an explanation of the reason for the 2024 plan year. For single-employer plans, the funded
change. percentage is the funding target attainment percentage, where
the numerator is the value of plan assets reduced by the sum
For any required attachment for line 14, label the attachment
of the amount of the prefunding balance and the funding
“Schedule R, Line 14 – Information on Inactive
standard carryover balance, and the denominator is the
Participants Whose Contributing Employer is No Longer
funding target for the plan (for this purpose, if the plan is in at
Making Contributions to the Plan.”
risk status, then the funding target is determined as if the plan
Line 15. Enter the ratio of number of participants on whose were not in at risk status). For multiemployer plans, the funded
behalf no employer had an obligation to make a contribution for
percentage is the ratio where the numerator is the actuarial
the 2025 plan year to the corresponding number for each of
value of the plan’s assets and the denominator is the accrued
the two preceding plan years. For the purpose of these ratios,
liability of the plan. For a terminated plan for which the funded
count all participants whose employers have withdrawn from
percentage is required to be reported, write “Terminated” in the
the plan as well as all deferred vested and retired participants
space where the plan’s funded percentage would otherwise
of employers still active in the plan (unless the collective
have been reported. Label the attachment “Schedule R, line
bargaining agreement specifically requires the employer to
18 –Funded Percentage of Plans Contributing to the
make contributions for such participants).
Liabilities of Plan Participants” and include the plan name
Line 15a. Enter the ratio of the number of participants as and the plan sponsor’s name and EIN.
described in the line 15 instructions for the 2025 plan year to
Line 19. This line must be completed for all defined benefit
the number for the 2024 plan year.
pension plans (except DFEs) with 1,000 or more participants at
Line 15b. Enter the ratio of the number of participants as the beginning of the plan year. To determine if the plan has
described on the line 15 instructions for the 2025 plan year to 1,000 or more participants, use the participant count shown on
the number for the 2023 plan year. line 3d(1) of the Schedule SB for single-employer plans or on
Note. Withdrawal liability payments are not to be treated as line 2b(4)(1) of the Schedule MB for multiemployer plans.
contributions for determining the number of participants on line Line 19a. Show the end-of-year distribution of assets for the
15. categories shown. Use the market value of assets (not notional
Line 16a. Enter the number of employers that withdrew from or book value) and do not include the value of any receivables.
the plan during the 2024 plan year. These percentages, expressed to the nearest whole percent,
should reflect the total assets held regardless of how they are
Line 16b. If line 16a is greater than zero, enter the aggregate
listed on the Schedule H and the sum of the percentages in the
amount of withdrawal liability assessed against these
seven categories should sum to 100 percent. Assets held in
employers. If the withdrawal liability for one or more
trusts, accounts, mutual funds, and other investment
withdrawing employers has not yet been determined, include
arrangements should be disaggregated among the seven
the amounts estimated to be assessed against them in the
asset categories. The same methodology should be used in
-76- Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500)

disaggregating trust assets as is used when disclosing the If PBGC has been notified of the missed contribution, check
allocation of plan assets on the sponsor’s 10-K filings to the the “Yes” box. Otherwise, check the box that best explains why
Securities and Exchange Commission. Split assets between PBGC wasn’t notified. If the “No. Other. Provide explanation”
the following seven categories: box is checked, provide an explanation as to why PBGC wasn’t
● Public Equity - Publicly traded U.S. and non-U.S. equity notified (e.g., “The due date for filing Form 10 has not yet
securities and the approximate portion of mutual funds or passed; the plan administrator intends to file Form 10 with
collective trusts invested in public equities. PBGC shortly” or “Reporting was waived under 29 CFR
4043.25(c)(3) because the unpaid contribution resulted solely
● Private Equity – Direct ownership, co-investment, limited
from an administrative error related to an election to use a pre-
partnerships, fund of funds or other investments in equity
funding balance”).
ownership not included in the Public Equity category.
Part VII – IRS Compliance Questions
● Investment-Grade Debt and Interest Rate Hedging Assets –
Investment-grade dollar denominated debt securities (fixed Line 21a. A multiple-employer plan or a pooled employer plan
income) traded publicly or privately, and the approximate can skip this question. Check "Yes" if this plan was
portion of the mutual funds or collective trusts invested in such permissively aggregated with another plan to satisfy the
securities. Investment-grade debt-instruments are those with requirements of Code sections 410(b) and 401(a)(4).
an S&P rating of BBB- or higher, a Moody’s rating of Baa3 or Generally, each single plan must separately satisfy the
higher, an equivalent rating from another rating agency, or coverage and nondiscrimination requirements. However,
generally considered to be of equivalent credit quality. Include generally, an employer may designate two or more separate
preferred equity in this category. Unrated debt with the backing plans as a single plan for purposes of applying the ratio
of a government entity would be included in the “investment- percentage test of Treasury Regulations section 1.410(b)-
grade” category unless it is generally accepted that the debt 2(b)(2) or the nondiscriminatory classification test of Treasury
should be considered as “high-yield.” Use the ratings in effect Regulations section 1.410(b)-4. Two or more plans that are
as of the end of the plan year. Include the market value (not permissively aggregated and treated as a single plan for
notional value) of interest rate swaps, futures and other purposes of the minimum coverage test of Code section 410(b)
derivates designed to be interest rate sensitive in this category. must also be treated as a single plan for purposes of the
nondiscrimination test under Code section 401(a)(4). See
● High-Yield Debt – Debt securities not included in Investment-
Treasury Regulations sections 1.410(b)-7(d) and 1.401(a)(4)-
Grade Debt as described above or in Cash and Cash
9(a) for more information.
Equivalents as described below. Include the approximate
portion of the mutual funds or collective trusts invested in high- Line 21b. A multiple-employer plan or a pooled employer plan
yield debt securities. can skip this question. Check the applicable method used to
satisfy the nondiscrimination requirements of Code section
● Real Assets - Direct ownership, co-investments, or shares of
401(k). A safe harbor 401(k) plan is similar to a traditional
funds with direct ownership in income-producing assets such
401(k) plan, but it must provide for employer contributions.
as real estate, infrastructure, or land (e.g., farmland or
These contributions may be employer matching contributions,
timberland). Real estate investment trusts (REITs) should be
limited to employees who defer, or employer contributions
included with Public Equity.
made on behalf of all eligible employees, regardless of whether
● Cash and Cash Equivalents – Non-interest-bearing cash they make elective deferrals. A safe harbor 401(k) plan is not
(Schedule H item 1(a)) and accounts at financial institutions subject to the annual nondiscrimination tests that apply to
that earn interest (Schedule H item 1(c)(1)). traditional 401(k) plans.
● Other – Any investments not included in the categories as Check "Design-based safe harbor method" if this is a safe
described above, such as hedge funds, commodities, and harbor 401(k) plan, that is, a SIMPLE 401(k) plan under Code
collectibles. section 401(k)(11), a safe harbor 401(k) plan under Code
Line 19b. Check the box that shows the average duration of section 401(k)(12), or a qualified automatic contribution
the plan’s combined investment-grade debt and interest rate arrangement under Code section 401(k)(13). If the plan, by its
hedging assets portfolio. If the average duration falls exactly on terms, does not satisfy the safe harbor method, it generally
the boundary of two boxes, check the box with the lower must satisfy the regular nondiscrimination test, known as the
duration. To determine the average duration, use the “effective actual deferral percentage (ADP) test.
duration” or any other generally accepted measure of duration. Check the appropriate box to indicate if the plan uses the
If debt instruments are held in multiple debt portfolios, report "current year" ADP test or the "prior year" ADP test.
the weighted average of the average durations of the various
Check "current year" ADP test if the plan uses the current
portfolios where the weights are the dollar values of the
year testing method under which the ADP test is performed by
individual portfolios.
comparing the current plan year's ADP for highly compensated
Line 20. This line must be completed for all single-employer employees (HCEs) with the current plan year's (rather than the
defined benefit plans that are covered by PBGC.
prior plan year's) ADP for nonhighly compensated employees
Line 20a. If the amount reported on Schedule SB (Form 5500) (NHCEs).
line 40 is greater than $0, check the “Yes” box and complete Check all boxes that apply for a plan that tests different
line 20b. Otherwise, check “No” and skip line 20b. groups of employees on a disaggregated basis or uses
Line 20b. In general, a PBGC-insured single-employer plan different testing methods for different portions of the plan. For
must notify PBGC if a required contribution is not made by its example, a plan that allows for immediate eligibility for elective
due date. With the exception of situations where the deferrals and statutory eligibility for safe harbor contributions
accumulated value of missed contributions exceeds $1 million, would be a safe harbor plan for statutory employees. However,
PBGC waives reporting if contributions equal to or exceeding the plan would be subject to ADP testing for non-statutory
the missed amount are made by the 30th day after the due employees.
date. For more information, see 29 CFR 4043.25 and 4043.81
and the filing instructions for PBGC Forms 10 and 200.
Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500) -77-

Check "N/A" if the plan is not required to test for approved Plan offered by a Provider, including a plan that is
nondiscrimination under Code section 401(k)(3), such as a word-for-word identical to, or a minor modification of, a plan of
plan in which no HCE is benefiting. a Mass Submitter. If a plan was modified in such a way that
Line 22. If a plan sponsor or an employer adopted a Pre- negates the Opinion Letter, then the plan sponsor is no longer
approved Plan that had received a favorable IRS Opinion an Adopting Employer of a Pre-approved Plan, and the plan is
Letter, enter the date of the most recent favorable Opinion treated as an individually designed plan. An “Opinion Letter” is
Letter issued by the IRS and the Opinion Letter serial number a written statement issued by the IRS to a Provider or Mass
Submitter as an opinion on the qualification in form of a plan
listed on the letter. A “Pre-approved Plan” is a plan approved
under Code section 401(a), Code section 403(a), or both Code
by the IRS with a favorable Opinion Letter that is made
sections 401(a) or 403(a) and 4975(e)(7). See Revenue
available by a Provider for adoption by employers, including a
Procedure 2017-41 for more information. The Opinion Letter
standardized plan or a nonstandardized plan. A Pre-approved
serial number is a unique combination of a capital letter and a
Plan may utilize either of two forms: a basic plan document
series of six numbers assigned to each Opinion Letter.
with an adoption agreement or a single plan document. The
employer is permitted to make minor modifications to the plan.
An “Adopting Employer” is an employer that adopts a Pre-
-78- Instructions for Schedule R (Form 5500)

Note. This schedule is not filed for a multiemployer plan nor for
2025 Instructions for Schedule SB
a money purchase defined contribution plan (including a target
(Form 5500) benefit plan) for which a waiver of the minimum funding
requirements is currently being amortized. Information for
Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan
these plans must be filed using Schedule MB (Form 5500).
Actuarial Information
Specific Instructions
Lines A through F. Identifying Information. Lines A – F
General Instructions
must be completed for all plans. Lines A through D should
Note. To the extent that regulations and other items of include the same information as reported in corresponding
published guidance under Code sections 430 and 436 do not lines in Part II of the Form 5500, Form 5500-SF, or Form 5500-
take into account statutory changes since those regulations EZ filed for the plan. You may abbreviate the plan name (if
were issued, plan sponsors must take into account the necessary) to fit in the space provided.
provisions of the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act Do not use a social security number in line D instead of an
of 2008 (“WRERA”), Pub. L. No. 110-458, the Preservation of EIN. The Schedule SB and its attachments are open to public
Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief inspection if filed with a Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF, and the
Act of 2010 (“PRA 2010”), Pub. L. No. 111-192, Moving Ahead contents are public information and are generally subject to
for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), Pub. L. No. publication on the Internet. Because of privacy concerns, the
112-141, the Cooperative and Small Employer Charity Pension inclusion of a social security number or any portion thereof on
Flexibility Act of 2014 (“CSEC Act”), Pub. L. No. 113-97, the the Schedule SB or any of its attachments may result in the
Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (HATFA), rejection of the filing.
Pub. L. No. 113-159, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
You can apply for an EIN from the IRS online, by fax, or by
(BBA’15), Pub. L. No. 114-74, and any other amendments to
mail depending on how soon you need to use the EIN. For
the funding rules that are enacted.
more information, see Section 3: Electronic Filing Requirement
Who Must File under General Instructions to Form 5500. The EBSA does not
As the first step, the plan administrator of any single-employer issue EINs.
defined benefit plan (including a multiple-employer defined Line E. Type of Plan. Check the applicable box to indicate the
benefit plan) that is subject to the minimum funding standards type of plan. A single-employer plan for this reporting purpose
(see Code section 412 and Part 3 of Title I of ERISA) must is an employee benefit plan maintained by one employer or
obtain a completed Schedule SB (including attachments) that one employee organization. A multiple-employer plan is a plan
is prepared and signed by the plan’s enrolled actuary as that is maintained by more than one employer, but is not a
discussed below in the Statement by Enrolled Actuary section. multiemployer plan. (See the Instructions for Form 5500, box A
The plan administrator must retain with the plan records the for additional information on the definition of a multiemployer
Schedule SB that is prepared and signed by the plan’s actuary. plan.)
Next, the plan administrator must ensure that the ● Check “Single” if the Form 5500, Form 5500-SF, or Form
information from the actuary’s Schedule SB is entered 5500-EZ is filed for a single-employer plan (including a plan
electronically into the annual return/report being submitted. maintained by more than one member of the same controlled
When entering the information, whether using EFAST2- group).
approved software or EFAST2’s web-based filing system, all ● Check “Multiple-A” if the Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF is
the fields required for the type of plan must be completed (see being filed for a multiple-employer plan and the plan is subject
instructions for fields that need to be completed). to the rules of Code section 413(c)(4)(A) (i.e., it is funded as if
Further, the plan administrator of a single-employer defined each employer were maintaining a separate plan). This
benefit plan must attach to the Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF an includes plans established before January 1, 1989, for which
electronic reproduction of the Schedule SB (including an election was made to fund in accordance with Code section
attachments) prepared and signed by the plan’s enrolled 413(c)(4)(A).
actuary. This electronic reproduction must be labeled “SB ● Check “Multiple-B” if the Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF is
Actuary Signature” and must be included as a Portable being filed for a multiple-employer plan and the plan is subject
Document Format (PDF) attachment or any alternative to the rules of Code section 413(c)(4)(B) (i.e., it is funded as if
electronic attachment allowable under EFAST2. all participants were employed by a single employer).
Note. The Schedule SB (Form 5500) does not have to be filed If “Multiple-A” is checked, with the exception of Part III, the
with the Form 5500-EZ regardless of whether it is filed on data entered on Schedule SB should be the sum of the
paper with the IRS or electronically with EFAST2, but it must individual amounts computed for each employer. The
be retained in accordance with the Instructions for Form 5500- percentages reported in Part III should be calculated based on
EZ under the What to File section. The enrolled actuary must the reported aggregate numbers rather than by summing up
complete and sign the Schedule SB and forward it to the the individual percentages. The Schedule SB data for each
person responsible for filing the Form 5500-EZ, even if the employer’s portion of the plan must be submitted as an
Schedule SB is not filed. attachment. This is accomplished by completing and attaching
a Schedule SB for each employer or by attaching a document
Check the Schedule SB box on the Form 5500 (Part II, line
containing that information (e.g., a table showing a row for
10a(3)) if a Schedule SB is attached to Form 5500. Check
each Schedule SB data item and a column for each
“Yes” on line 11 in Part VI of the Form 5500-SF if a Schedule
employer). Label the attachment “Schedule SB – Information
SB is required to be prepared for the plan, even if Schedule SB
for Each Individual Employer.”
is not required to be attached to Form 5500-SF (see
instructions in the Note above, pertaining to “one-participant Line F. Prior Year Plan Size. Check the applicable box based
plans”). on the highest number of participants (both active and inactive)
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -79-

on any day of the preceding plan year, taking into account Accordingly, the Schedule SB is not required to be filed for any
participants in all defined benefit plans maintained by the same later plan year. However, if a termination fails to occur —
employer (or any member of such employer’s controlled group) whether because assets remain in the plan’s related trust (see
who are or were also employees of that employer or member. Revenue Ruling 89-87, 1989-2 C.B. 81) or for any other
For this purpose, participants whose only defined benefit plan reason (e.g., PBGC issues a notice of noncompliance under
is a multiemployer plan (as defined in Code section 414(f)) are 29 CFR section 4041.31 for a standard termination) — there is
not counted, and participants who are covered in more than no termination date, and therefore, minimum funding standards
one of the defined benefit plans described above are counted continue to apply and a Schedule SB continues to be required.
only once. Inactive participants include vested terminated and Statement by Enrolled Actuary
retired employees as well as beneficiaries of deceased
An enrolled actuary must sign Schedule SB. The signature of
participants. If this is the first plan year that a plan described in
the enrolled actuary may be qualified to state that it is subject
this paragraph exists, complete this line based on the highest
to attached qualifications. See Treasury Regulations section
number of participants that the plan was reasonably expected
301.6059-1(d) for permitted qualifications. If the actuary has
to have on any day during the first plan year.
not fully reflected any final or temporary regulation, revenue
General Instructions, Parts I through IX, Statement
ruling, or notice promulgated under the statute in completing
by Enrolled Actuary, and Attachments the Schedule SB, check the box on the last line of page 1. If
Except as noted below, Parts I through VIII must be completed this box is checked, indicate on an attachment whether any
for all single and multiple-employer defined benefit plans, unpaid required contribution or a contribution that is not wholly
regardless of size or type. See instructions for line 27 for deductible would result if the actuary had fully reflected such
additional information to be provided for certain plans with regulation, revenue ruling, or notice, and label this attachment
special circumstances. Part IX is completed only for those “Schedule SB – Statement by Enrolled Actuary.” In
plans for which an alternative amortization schedule was addition, the actuary may offer any other comments related to
elected under Code section 430(c)(2)(D) or ERISA section the information contained in Schedule SB. Except as otherwise
303(c)(2)(D), as amended by PRA 2010. provided in these instructions, a stamped or machine produced
signature is not acceptable.
PPA provides funding relief for certain defined benefit plans
(other than multiemployer plans) maintained by a commercial The actuary must provide the completed and signed
passenger airline or by an employer whose principal business Schedule SB to the plan administrator to be retained with the
is providing catering services to a commercial passenger plan records and included (in accordance with these
airline, based on an alternative 17-year funding schedule. instructions) with the Form 5500 or Form 5500-SF that is
Plans using this funding relief do not need to complete the submitted under EFAST2. The plan’s actuary is permitted to
entire Schedule SB, but are required to provide supplemental sign the Schedule SB on page one using the actuary’s
information as an attachment to Schedule SB. See the signature or by inserting the actuary’s typed name in the
instructions for line 27 for more information about which lines signature line followed by the actuary’s handwritten initials.
of Schedule SB need to be completed and what additional The actuary’s most recent enrollment number must be entered
attachments are required. on the Schedule SB that is prepared and signed by the plan’s
actuary.
Code section 430(h)(2)(C)(iv) and ERISA section
302(h)(2)(C)(iv) provide that, for certain purposes, each of the Attachments
three segment rates described in those sections is adjusted as
All attachments to the Schedule SB must be properly identified
necessary to fall within a specified range that is determined
as attachments to the Schedule SB, and must include the
based on an average of the corresponding segment rates for
name of the plan, plan sponsor’s EIN, plan number, and line
the 25-year period ending on September 30 of the calendar
number to which the schedule relates.
year preceding the first day of the plan year. Accordingly, if the
Do not include attachments that contain a visible social
funding target and target normal cost for a plan are determined
security number. Except for certain one-participant plans, the
using the segment rates, the segment rates used to determine
Schedule SB and its attachments are open to public
the minimum required contribution and the adjusted funding
inspection, and the contents are public information and are
target attainment percentage (“AFTAP”) used to apply funding-
subject to publication on the Internet. Because of privacy
based benefit restrictions under Code section 436 and ERISA
concerns, the inclusion of a visible social security number or
section 206(g) may be different from those used for other
any portion thereof on an attachment may result in the
purposes (such as the segment rates used to determine the
rejection of the filing.
deductible limit under Code section 404(o)). In such cases,
report all information on Schedule SB reflecting the The first year Schedule SB attachment for a plan
assumptions used to determine the minimum required retroactively adopted under SECURE Act section 201. If a plan
contribution and the AFTAP used to apply funding-based sponsor adopted a defined benefit pension plan in 2025 (i.e.,
benefit restrictions. by the due date, including extension, for filing the plan
sponsor’s tax return for the 2024 taxable year) and elected to
Note. (1) For a plan funded with insurance (other than a plan
treat the plan as having been adopted before the 2025 plan
described in Code section 412(e)(3) or ERISA section 301(b)),
year began as permitted under SECURE Act section 201, then
refer to section 1.430(d)-1(c)(2) of the Income Tax Regulations
the enrolled actuary must complete and sign the 2024
regarding whether to include the liabilities for benefits covered
Schedule SB (Form 5500). If the plan sponsor is required to
under insurance contracts held by the plan and whether to
file Schedule SB (see instructions for Schedule SB under “Who
include the value of the insurance contracts in plan assets.
Must File”), attach the 2024 Schedule SB (Form 5500) as a
(2) For terminating plans, Revenue Ruling 79-237, 1979-2 Portable Document Format (PDF) attachment to the 2025
C.B. 190, provides that minimum funding standards apply until Schedule SB when filing the 2025 Form 5500. Label the
the end of the plan year that includes the termination date.
-80- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

attachment “The first year Schedule SB attachment for a plan such value must be within 90% to 110% of the fair market
retroactively adopted under SECURE Act 201”. value of assets.
Note. Under Code section 430(g)(3)(B), the use of averaging
Part I – Basic Information methods in determining the value of plan assets is permitted
only in accordance with methods prescribed in Treasury
Note. All entries in Part I must be reported as of the valuation regulations. Accordingly, taxpayers cannot use asset valuation
date, reflecting the assumptions and amounts generally used
methods other than fair market value (as described in Code
to determine the minimum required contribution. In the case of
section 430(g)(3)(A)), except as provided under Notice 2009-
a plan described in PPA section 104, the information should be
22, 2009-14 IRB 741, or Treasury regulations.
reported as if PPA provisions were effective for all plan years
Line 3. Funding Target/Participant Count Breakdown. All
beginning after December 31, 2007.
amounts should be reported as of the valuation date.
Line 1. Valuation Date. The valuation date for a plan year
• Column (1)—Enter the number of participants in each
must be the first day of the plan year unless the plan meets the
category (e.g., terminated vested participants). Enter “0” if no
small-plan exception of Code section 430(g)(2)(B) and ERISA
participants fall into the category. Include beneficiaries of
section 303(g)(2)(B). For plans that qualify for the exception,
deceased participants who are or who will be entitled to
the valuation date may be any date in the plan year, including
benefits under the plan.
the first or last day of the plan year.
• Column (2)—Enter the portion of the funding target
A plan qualifies for this small-plan exception if there were
attributable to vested benefits. If no portion of the funding
100 or fewer participants on each day of the prior plan year.
For the definition of participant as it applies in this case, see target for a particular category is attributable to vested
the instructions for line F. benefits, enter “0.” For this purpose, benefits considered to be
vested for PBGC premium purposes must be included.
Line 2a. Market Value of Assets. Enter the fair market value
of assets as of the valuation date. Include contributions • Column (3)—Enter the funding target attributable to all
designated for any previous plan year that are made after the benefits, both vested and nonvested. Enter “0” if no portion of
valuation date (but within the 8½-month period after the end of the funding target is for participants in a particular category.
the immediately preceding plan year), adjusted for interest for For columns (2) and (3), the funding target must be calculated
the period between the date of payment and the valuation date using the methods and assumptions provided in Code sections
as provided in the applicable regulations. 430(h) and (i), ERISA sections 303(h) and (i), and other related
Contributions made for the current plan year must be guidance.
excluded from the amount reported in line 2a. If these Unless the plan sponsor has received approval to use
contributions were made prior to the valuation date (which can substitute mortality tables in accordance with Code section
only occur for small plans with a valuation date other than the 430(h)(3)(C) and ERISA section 303(h)(3)(C), the funding
first day of the plan year), the asset value must be adjusted to target must be computed using the mortality tables for non-
exclude not only the contribution amounts, but interest on the disabled lives, as described in section 1.430(h)(3)-1 of the
contributions from the date of payment to the valuation date, regulations. If substitute mortality tables have been approved
using the current-year effective interest rate. (or deemed to have been approved) by the IRS, such tables
Do not adjust for items such as the funding standard must be used instead of the mortality tables described in the
carryover balance, prefunding balance, any unpaid minimum previous sentence, subject to the rules of Code section
required contributions, or the present value of remaining 430(h)(3) and ERISA section 303(h)(3). The funding target
shortfall or waiver amortization installments. Rollover amounts may be computed taking into account the mortality tables for
or other assets held in individual accounts that are not disabled lives published in Revenue Ruling 96-7, 1996-1 C.B.
available to provide defined benefits under the plan should not 59, and as provided in Notice 2008-29, 2008-12 IRB 637.
be included on line 2a regardless of whether they are reported Special rules for plans that are in at-risk status. If a plan
on the Schedule H (Form 5500) (line 1l, column (a)) or is in at-risk status, report the amount reflecting the additional
Schedule I (Form 5500) (line 1c, column (a)), or Form 5500-SF assumptions required in Code section 430(i)(1)(B) and ERISA
(line 7c, column (a)). Additionally, asset and liability amounts section 303(i)(1)(B).
must be determined in a consistent manner. Therefore, if the
If the plan has been in at-risk status for any two or more of
value of any insurance contracts has been excluded from the
the preceding four plan years, also include the loading factor
amount reported in line 2a, liabilities satisfied by such
required in Code section 430(i)(1)(C) and ERISA section
contracts should also be excluded from the funding target
303(i)(1)(C). If the plan is in at-risk status and has been in at-
values reported in lines 3 and 4.
risk status for fewer than five consecutive years, report the
Line 2b. Actuarial Value of Assets. Do not adjust the funding target amounts after reflecting the transition rule
actuarial value of assets for items such as the funding provided in Code section 430(i)(5) and ERISA section
standard carryover balance, the prefunding balance, any 303(i)(5). For example, the funding target for a plan that is in
unpaid minimum required contributions, or the present value of at-risk status for 2025 and was in at-risk status for the 2022,
any remaining shortfall or waiver amortization installments. 2023 and 2024 plan years (but not the 2020 plan year) will
Treat contributions designated for a current or prior plan year, reflect 80% of the funding target using the special at-risk
rollover amounts, insurance contracts, and other items in the assumptions and 20% of the funding target determined without
same manner as for line 2a. regard to the at-risk assumptions.
If an averaging method is used to value plan assets (as Determining whether a plan is in at-risk status. Refer to
permitted under Code section 430(g)(3)(B) and ERISA section Code section 430(i)(4) and ERISA section 303(i)(4) to
303(g)(3)(B), as amended by WRERA), enter the value as of determine whether the plan is in at-risk status. Generally, a
the valuation date taking into account the requirement that plan is in at-risk status for a plan year if it had more than 500
participants on any day during the preceding plan year (see
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -81-

instructions for line F for the definition of participants) and the under the plan during the plan year. Include any increase in
plan’s funding target attainment percentage (“FTAP”) for the benefits during the plan year that is a result of any actual or
preceding plan year fell below specified thresholds. projected increase in compensation during the current plan
A plan with over 500 participants is in at-risk status for 2025 year, even if that increase in benefits is with respect to benefits
if both: attributable to services performed in a preceding plan year.
This amount must be calculated as of the valuation date and
• the FTAP for 2024 (line 14 of the 2024 Schedule SB) is less
must generally be based on the same assumptions used to
than 80%, and
determine the funding target reported in line 3c, column (3),
• the at-risk funding target attainment percentage for 2024 is reflecting the special assumptions and the loading factor for at-
less than 70%.
risk plans, if applicable. If the plan is in at-risk status for the
In general, the at-risk funding target attainment percentage current plan year and has been in at-risk status for fewer than
is determined in the same manner as the FTAP (as described five consecutive years, report this amount after reflecting the
in the instructions for line 14), except that the funding target is transition rule provided in Code section 430(i)(5) and ERISA
determined using the additional assumptions for plans in at- section 303(i)(5).
risk status. For this purpose, the at-risk funding target is
Line 6b. Expected Plan-related Expenses. Enter the
determined by disregarding the transition rule of Code section
aggregate amount of any plan-related expenses expected to
430(i)(5) and ERISA section 303(i)(5) for plans that have been
be paid from plan assets during the plan year.
in at-risk status for fewer than five consecutive years, and
Line 6c. Target Normal Cost. Enter the sum of lines 6a and
disregarding the loading factor in Code section 430(i)(1)(C)
6b, reduced (but not below zero) by any mandatory employee
and ERISA section 303(i)(1)(C). For plans that were in at-risk
contributions expected to be made during the plan year.
status for the 2024 plan year, the at-risk funding target used to
determine whether the plan is in at-risk status for the 2025 plan Part II – Beginning of Year Carryover Prefunding
year is the amount reported in line 4b of the 2024 Schedule Balances
SB.
Line 7. Balance at Beginning of Prior Plan Year After
Refer to the regulations under section 430(i) of the Code for Applicable Adjustments. In general, report the amount in the
rules pertaining to new plans and other special situations. corresponding columns of line 13 of the prior-year Schedule
Line 4. Additional Information for Plans in At-Risk Status. SB. However, if the balance from the prior year has been
If the plan is in at-risk status as provided under Code section adjusted so that it does not match the corresponding amount in
430(i)(4) and ERISA section 303(i)(4), check the box, complete line 13 of the prior-year Schedule SB, attach an explanation
lines 4a and 4b, and include as an attachment the information and label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 7 – Explanation
described below. Do not complete line 4 if the plan is not in at- of Discrepancy in Prior Year Funding Standard Carryover
risk status for the current plan year for purposes of determining Balance or Prefunding Balance.” Note that elections to add
the minimum required contribution. excess contributions or reduce balances have specific
deadlines, and generally cannot be changed once they have
● Line 4a – Enter the amount of the funding target determined
been made.
as if the plan were not in at-risk status.
● Line 4b – Report the funding target disregarding the If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the
transition rule of Code section 430(i)(5) and ERISA section minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section
303(i)(5), and disregarding the loading factor in Code section 303, leave both columns blank.
430(i)(1)(C) and ERISA section 303(i)(1)(C). Line 8. Portion Elected for Use To Offset Prior Year’s
If the plan is in at-risk status for the current plan year, attach Funding Requirement. Report the amount for each column
a description of the at-risk assumptions for the assumed form from the corresponding column of line 35 of the prior-year
of payment (e.g., the optional form resulting in the highest Schedule SB. If the valuation date is not the first day of the
present value). Label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 4 – plan year, report the amounts from line 35 of the prior-year
Additional Information for Plans in At-Risk Status.” Schedule SB, discounted to the beginning of the prior plan
year using the effective interest rate for the prior plan year.
Line 5. Effective Interest Rate. Enter the single rate of
interest which, if used instead of the interest rate(s) reported in Reflect the full amount reported in line 35 of the prior-year
line 21 to determine the present value of the benefits that are Schedule SB even if the amount is larger than the minimum
taken into account in determining the plan’s funding target for a required contribution reported for that year on line 34 of the
plan year, would result in an amount equal to the plan’s prior-year Schedule SB. This can occur under the special rule
funding target determined for the plan year, without regard to for elections to use balances in excess of the minimum
calculations for plans in at-risk status. (This is the funding required contribution under section 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(ii) of the
target reported in line 3d, column (3) for plans not in at-risk regulations, if no timely election is made to revoke the excess
status, or in line 4a for plans in at-risk status.) However, if the amount.
funding target for the plan year is zero, the effective interest If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the
rate is determined as the single rate that would result in an minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section
amount equal to the plan’s target normal cost determined for 303, leave both columns blank.
the plan year, without regard to calculations for plans in at-risk
Special rule for late election to apply balances to
status. See the provisions of Code section 430(h)(2)(A),
quarterly installments. If an election was made to use the
ERISA section 303(h)(2)(A), and the applicable regulations.
funding standard carryover balance or the prefunding balance
Enter rate to the nearest .01% (e.g., 5.26%).
to offset the amount of a required quarterly installment, but the
Line 6. Target Normal Cost. election was made after the due date of the installment, the
Line 6a. Present Value of Current Year Accruals. Enter the amount reported on line 8 may not be the same as the amount
present value of all benefits which have been accrued or have reported on line 35 for the prior year. Refer to the regulations
been earned (or that are expected to accrue or to be earned)
-82- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

under section 430 of the Code for additional information. An However, if the valuation date for the prior plan year was
attachment to Schedule SB should explain why the amount is not the first day of the plan year (permitted for small plans
different. Label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 8 – Late only), enter the result of the following calculation:
Election to Apply Balances to Quarterly Installments.” Step 1: Adjust the prior-year amount reported in line 38b
Line 9. Amount Remaining. Enter the amount equal to line 7 to the first day of the prior year, using the effective interest rate
minus line 8 in each column. for the prior year,
If this is the first year that the plan is subject to the minimum Step 2: Multiply the result in Step 1 by the prior year’s
funding requirements of Code section 430 or ERISA section actual rate of return (from line 10), and
303, enter the amount of any credit balance at the end of the
Step 3: Reduce the result in Step 2 by interest on the
prior year (the “pre-effective plan year”) on line 9, column (a)
result in Step 1 for the period between the first day of the
and leave line 9, column (b) blank. The amount entered on line
prior plan year and the prior-year valuation date using the
9, column (a) is generally the amount reported for the pre-
effective interest rate for the prior year.
effective plan year on line 9o of the 2007 version of the
Line 11c. Enter the sum of lines 11a, 11b(1) and 11(b)(2).
Schedule B form that was submitted as an attachment to the
Schedule SB for that pre-effective plan year. If there has been Line 11d. Enter the amount of the excess contributions for the
any adjustment to this amount so that it does not match the prior year (with interest) that the plan sponsor elected to use to
amount so reported for the pre-effective plan year, attach an increase the prefunding balance. This amount cannot be
explanation and label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 9 – greater than the amount reported on line 11c.
Explanation of Credit Balance Discrepancy.” If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the
Line 10. Interest on Line 9. Enter the actual rate of return on minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section
plan assets during the preceding plan year in the space 303, leave lines 11a–d blank.
provided. Enter the rate to the nearest .01% (e.g., 6.53%). If Line 12. Other Reductions in Balances Due to Elections or
entering a negative number, enter a minus sign (“–”) to the left Deemed Elections. In each column, enter the amount by
of the number. In each column, enter the product of this which the employer elects to reduce (or is deemed to elect to
interest rate and the amount reported in the corresponding reduce, per Code section 436(f)(3) and ERISA section
column of line 9. 206(g)(5)(C)) the funding standard carryover balance or
If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the prefunding balance, as applicable, under Code section 430(f)
minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section and ERISA section 303(f), other than any amount reported in
303, leave both columns blank. line 8 that is treated as a reduction in these balances under the
special rule in section 1.430(f)-1(f)(3)(ii) (relating to amounts
Line 11. Prior Year’s Excess Contributions to be Added to
elected for use to offset the minimum required contribution that
Prefunding Balance.
exceed the minimum required contribution for the plan for the
Line 11a. Enter the amount reported in line 38a on the plan year, and which are not revoked by the plan sponsor).
Schedule SB for the prior plan year.
This amount cannot be greater than the sum of the amounts
Line 11b(1). Enter the effective interest rate for the prior plan reported in the corresponding column of lines 9, 10 and, if
year, as reported on line 5 of the Schedule SB for the prior applicable, 11d. Note that an election (or deemed election)
plan year, in the space provided. Enter the rate to the nearest cannot be made to reduce the prefunding balance in column
.01% (e.g., 6.35%). (b) until the funding standard carryover balance in column (a)
has been reduced to zero.
In column (b), enter the product of the prior year’s effective
interest rate in line 11b(1) and the excess (if any) of the If the valuation date is not the first day of the plan year,
amount reported on line 38a for the prior year over the amount adjust the amounts reported in line 12 to the first day of the
reported on line 38b for the prior year. plan year, using the effective interest rate for the current plan
year. If the plan did not exist in the prior year and is not a
However, if the valuation date for the prior plan year was
successor plan, leave both columns blank.
not the first day of the plan year (permitted for small plans
only), enter the result of the following calculation: If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the
minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section
Step 1: Determine the excess (if any) of the amount
303, leave column (b) blank.
reported on line 38a for the prior year over the amount
reported on line 38b for the prior year, Line 13. Balance at Beginning of Current Year.
Step 2: Adjust the result in Step 1 to the first day of the ● Column (a) - Enter the sum of the amounts reported on lines
prior year using the effective interest rate for the prior year, 9 and 10 of column (a), minus the amount reported on line 12
Step 3: Multiply the result in Step 2 by the prior year’s of column (a).
effective interest rate in line 11(b)(1), and ● Column (b) - Enter the sum of the amounts reported on lines
9, 10 and 11d of column (b), minus the amount reported on
Step 4: Reduce the result in Step 3 by interest on the
line 12 of column (b).
result in Step 2 of this paragraph for the period between the
If this is the first year for which the plan is subject to the
first day of the prior plan year and the prior-year valuation date
minimum funding rules of Code section 430 or ERISA section
using the effective interest rate for the prior year.
303, leave column (b) blank.
The amount reported in line 11(b)(1) is zero if the prior
year’s valuation date was the last day of the prior plan year.
Line 11(b)(2). In column (b), enter the product of the prior
year’s actual rate of return (from line 10) and the present value
of excess contributions reported on line 38b for the prior year.
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -83-

Part III – Funding Percentages each AFTAP that was certified or recertified for the plan year,
the date of the certification (or recertification), and a
Enter all percentages in this section by truncating at .01%
description and the amount of each adjustment to the funding
(e.g., report 82.649% as 82.64%).
target, actuarial value of assets, funding standard carryover
Line 14. Funding Target Attainment Percentage. Enter the balance and prefunding balance used to determine the
funding target attainment percentage (FTAP) determined in
corresponding AFTAP. Label the attachment, “Line 15,
accordance with Code section 430(d)(2) and ERISA section
Reconciliation of differences between valuation results
303(d)(2). The FTAP is the ratio (expressed as a percentage)
and amounts used to calculate AFTAP.” It is not necessary
which the actuarial value of plan assets (reduced by the
to include any information pertaining to a range certification in
funding standard carryover balance and prefunding balance)
this attachment.
bears to the funding target determined without regard to the
Line 16. Prior Year’s Funding Percentage for Purposes of
additional rules for plans in at-risk status.
Determining Whether Carryover/Prefunding Balances May
This percentage is determined by subtracting the sum of
Be Used to Offset Current Year’s Funding Requirement.
the amounts reported in line 13 from line 2b and dividing the
Under Code section 430(f)(3) and ERISA section 303(f)(3), the
result by the funding target. The funding target used for this
funding standard carryover balance and prefunding balance
purpose is the number reported in line 3d, column (3) for plans
may not be applied toward minimum contribution requirements
that are not in at-risk status and line 4a for plans that are in at-
unless the ratio of plan assets for the preceding plan year to
risk status. If the plan’s valuation date is not the first day of the
the funding target for the preceding plan year (as described in
plan year, subtract the sum of the amounts reported in line 13,
Code section 430(f)(3)(C) and ERISA section 303(f)(3)(C)) is
adjusted for interest between the beginning of the plan year
80% or more.
and the valuation date using the effective interest rate for the
Enter the applicable percentage as described below,
current plan year, from the amount reported in line 2b; and
truncated at .01% (e.g., report 81.239% as 81.23%). In
divide by the funding target.
general, the percentage is the ratio that the prior-year actuarial
Line 15. Adjusted Funding Target Attainment Percentage. value of plan assets (reduced by the amount of any prefunding
Enter the adjusted funding target attainment percentage
balance, but not the funding standard carryover balance) bears
(AFTAP) determined in accordance with Code section 436(j)(2)
to the prior-year funding target determined without regard to
and ERISA section 206(g)(9)(B). The AFTAP is calculated in
the additional rules for plans in at-risk status. This percentage
the same manner as the FTAP reported in line 14, except that
is determined as follows, with all amounts taken from the prior
both the assets and the funding target used to calculate the
year’s Schedule SB:
AFTAP are increased by the aggregate amount of purchases
● For plans that are not in at-risk status, subtract the amount
of annuities for employees other than highly compensated
reported on line 13, column (b) (adjusted for interest as
employees (as defined in Code section 414(q)) which were
described below, if the valuation date is not the first day of the
made by the plan during the preceding two plan years.
plan year) from the amount reported on line 2b, and divide the
See Code section 436(j)(3) and ERISA section 206(g)(9)(C)
result by the funding target reported on line 3d, column (3).
for rules regarding circumstances in which the actuarial value
● For plans that are in at-risk status, subtract the amount
of plan assets is not reduced by the funding standard carryover
reported on line 13, column (b) (adjusted for interest as
balance and prefunding balance for certain fully-funded plans
described below, if the valuation date is not the first day of the
when determining the AFTAP. Note that this special rule
plan year) from the amount reported on line 2b, and divide the
applies only to the calculation of the AFTAP and not to the
result by the funding target reported on line 4a.
FTAP reported in line 14.
If the valuation date for the prior plan year was not the
Report the final certified AFTAP for the plan year, even if it
first day of that plan year, the amount subtracted from the
does not correspond to the valuation results reported on this
assets for the purpose of the above calculations is the amount
Schedule SB (for instance, if any adjustments pertaining to the
reported on line 13, column(b), adjusted for interest between
plan year were made subsequent to the valuation or the
the beginning of the prior plan year and the prior year’s
AFTAP). If no AFTAP was certified for the plan year, attach an
valuation date, using the effective interest rate for the prior
explanation and (1) report 100%, if the plan's adjusted funding
plan year.
target for the plan year is zero, as described in section 1.436-
Line 17. Ratio of Current Value of Assets to Funding
1(j)(1)(iv) of the Treasury regulations, or (2) leave line 15 blank
Target if Below 70%. This calculation is required under ERISA
if the plan's adjusted funding target for the plan year is not
section 103(d)(11). If line 2a divided by the funding target
equal to zero. Label the attachment, "Line 15, Reconciliation
reported in line 3d, column (3), is less than 70%, enter such
of differences between valuation results and amounts
percentage. Otherwise, leave this line blank.
used to calculate AFTAP.” For plans with valuation dates
other than the first day of the plan year, report the AFTAP that Part IV – Contributions and Liquidity Shortfalls
is the final certified AFTAP based on the valuation results for Line 18. Contributions Made to the Plan. Show all employer
the current plan year at the time that the Schedule SB is filed
and employee contributions either designated for this plan year
(reflecting contributions for the current plan year and reflecting
or those allocated to unpaid minimum required contributions
other adjustments as described in applicable guidance), even if
for a prior plan year. Do not adjust contributions to reflect
that AFTAP is not used to apply the restrictions under Code
interest. Show only employer contributions actually made to
section 436 and ERISA section 206(g) until the following plan
the plan within 8½ months after the end of the plan year for
year.
which this Schedule SB is filed (or actually made before the
If the AFTAP reported on line 15 does not correspond to Schedule SB is signed, if earlier).
the valuation results reported on this Schedule SB (for
Certain employer contributions must be made in quarterly
instance, if any adjustments pertaining to the plan year were installments. See Code section 430(j) and ERISA section
made subsequent to the valuation), attach a schedule showing 303(j). Contributions made to meet the liquidity requirement of
-84- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

Code section 430(j)(4) and ERISA section 303(j)(4) should be adjustments for late quarterly contributions for quarterly
reported. Include contributions made to avoid benefit contributions due before the valuation date.
restrictions under Code section 436 and ERISA section 206(g).
Line 19a. Contributions Allocated Toward Unpaid
Add the amounts in both columns 18(b) and 18(c) Minimum Required Contributions from Prior Plan Years.
separately and enter each result in the corresponding column Under code section 4971(c)(4)(B), if a plan has an unpaid
on the total line. All contributions except those made to avoid minimum required contribution that has not been corrected at
benefit restrictions under Code section 436 and ERISA section the time a payment is made (i.e., the deadline for making the
206(g) must be credited toward minimum funding requirements minimum required contribution for a prior plan year had passed
for a particular plan year. and the minimum required contribution for that year was not
Line 19. Discounted Employer Contributions. Employer yet paid) that payment is allocated first to plan years with
contributions reported in line 18 that were made on a date unpaid minimum required contributions, beginning with the
earliest such plan year, and then to the minimum required
other than the valuation date must be adjusted to reflect
contribution for the current plan year. Within a given plan year,
interest for the time period between the valuation date for the
payments are credited first to the earliest unpaid installment
plan year to which the contribution is allocated and the date
until the minimum required contribution for that plan year is
the contribution was made. In general, adjust each contribution
satisfied. Report any contributions from line 18 that are
using the effective interest rate for the plan year to which the
allocated toward unpaid minimum required contributions from
contribution is allocated, as reported on line 5.
prior plan years, discounted for interest from the date the
Allocate the interest-adjusted employer contributions to
contribution was made to the valuation date for the plan year
lines 19a, 19b, and 19c to report the purpose for which they
for which the contribution was originally required as described
were made (as described below).
above. Increase the effective interest rate for the applicable
Attach a schedule showing the dates and amounts of plan year by 5 percentage points for any portion of the unpaid
individual contributions, the year to which the contributions (or minimum required contribution that represents a late quarterly
the portion of individual contributions) are applied, the interest installment, for the period between the due date for the
rate(s) used to adjust the contributions (i.e., the effective installment and the date of payment. Reflect the increased
interest rate for timely contributions and the applicable interest rate for any portion of the unpaid minimum required
effective interest rate plus 5% for late quarterly installments) contribution that represents a late liquidity shortfall installment,
and the periods during which each rate applies, and the for the period corresponding to the time between the date the
interest-adjusted contribution. It is not necessary to include installment was due and the end of the quarter during which it
information regarding interest-adjusted contributions allocated was due. The amount reported in line 19a cannot be larger
toward the minimum required contribution for the current year than the amount reported in line 28.
(reported in line 19c) in this schedule, unless any of those
For the purpose of allocating contribution amounts to
contributions represent late quarterly installments. However, if
unpaid minimum required contributions, any unpaid minimum
any of the contributions reported in line 19c represent late
required contribution attributable to an accumulated funding
quarterly installments, include all contributions reported in line
deficiency at the end of the last plan year before Code section
19c on this schedule. Label the attachment “Schedule SB,
430 or ERISA section 303 applied to the plan (the “pre-
line 19 –Discounted Employer Contributions.”
effective plan year”) is treated as a single contribution due on
Special note for small plans with valuation dates after the last day of the pre-effective plan year (without separately
the beginning of the plan year. If the valuation date is after identifying any portion of the accumulated funding deficiency
the beginning of the plan year and contributions for the current attributable to late quarterly installments or late liquidity
year were made during the plan year but before the valuation shortfall installments), and the associated effective interest rate
date, such contributions are increased with interest to the is deemed to be the valuation interest rate for the pre-effective
valuation date using the effective interest rate for the current plan year.
plan year. These contributions and the interest calculated as
Line 19b. Contributions Made To Avoid Benefit
described in the preceding sentence are excluded from the
Restrictions. Include in this category current year
value of assets reported in lines 2a and 2b.
contributions made to avoid or terminate benefit restrictions
Interest adjustment for contributions representing late under Code section 436 and ERISA section 206(g). Adjust
required quarterly installments — installments due after each contribution for interest from the date the contribution
the valuation date. If the full amount of a required installment was made to the valuation date as described above.
due after the valuation date for the current plan year is not paid
Line 19c. Contributions Allocated Toward Minimum
by the due date for that installment, increase the effective
Required Contribution for Current Year. Include in this
interest rate used to discount the contribution by 5 percentage
category contributions (including any contributions made in
points for the period between the due date for the required
excess of the minimum required contribution) that are not
installment and the date on which the payment is made. If all
included in line 19a or 19b. Adjust each contribution for interest
or a portion of the late required quarterly installment is due to a
from the date the contribution was made to the valuation date
liquidity shortfall, the increased interest rate is used for a
as described above.
period of time corresponding to the period between the due
date for the installment and the end of that quarter, regardless Line 20. Quarterly Contributions and Liquidity Shortfalls.
of when the contribution is actually paid. Line 20a. Did the Plan Have a Funding Shortfall for the
Prior Plan Year? In accordance with Code section 430(j)(3)
Interest adjustment for contributions representing late
and ERISA section 303(j)(3), only plans that have a funding
required quarterly installments — small plans with
shortfall for the preceding plan year are subject to an
valuation dates after the beginning of the plan year -
accelerated quarterly contribution schedule. For this purpose,
installments due prior to the valuation date. See the
a plan is considered to have a funding shortfall for the prior
regulations under section 430 for rules regarding interest
year if the funding target reported on line 3d, column (3) is
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -85-

greater than the actuarial value of assets reported on line 2b, by Treasury for the month that includes the valuation date
reduced by the sum of the funding standard carryover balance (based on the average of the monthly corporate bond yield
and prefunding balance reported on line 13, columns (a) and curves for the 24-month period ending with the month
(b), with all figures taken from the prior year’s Schedule SB. preceding that month). Alternatively, at the election of the plan
If the valuation date for the prior plan year was not the first sponsor, the segment rate(s) used to measure the funding
day of that plan year, the amount subtracted from the actuarial target and target normal cost may be those published by
value of assets for the above calculation is the sum of the Treasury for any of the four months that precede the month
that includes the valuation date.
amounts reported on line 13, columns (a) and (b) of the prior-
year Schedule SB, but adjusted for interest between the Enter the applicable month to indicate which segment rates
beginning of the prior plan year and the prior year’s valuation were used to determine the funding target and target normal
date using the effective interest rate for the plan for the prior cost. Enter “0” if the rates used to determine the funding target
plan year. and target normal cost were published for the month that
includes the valuation date. Enter “1” if the rates were
However, see Code section 430(f)(4)(B)(ii) and ERISA
published for the month immediately preceding the month that
section 303(f)(4)(B)(ii) for special rules in the case of a binding
includes the valuation date, “2” for the second preceding
agreement with PBGC providing that all or a portion of the
funding standard carryover balance and/or prefunding balance month, and “3” or “4,” respectively, for the third or fourth
is not available to offset the minimum required contribution for preceding months. For example, if the valuation date is
the prior plan year. January 1 and the funding target and target normal cost were
determined based on rates published for November, enter “2.”
Please note that a plan may be considered to have a
funding shortfall for this purpose even if it is exempt from Note. The plan sponsor’s interest rate election under Code
section 430(h)(2) or ERISA section 303(h)(2) (an election to use
establishing a shortfall amortization base under the provisions
the yield curve or an election to use an applicable month other
of Code section 430(c)(5) and ERISA section 303(c)(5).
than the default month) generally may not be changed unless
Line 20b. If line 20a is “No” (i.e., if the plan did not have a
the plan sponsor obtains approval from the IRS. However, see
funding shortfall in the prior plan year), the plan is not subject
the regulations under section 430(h)(2) for circumstances in
to the quarterly contribution rules, and this line should not be
which a change in interest rate may be made without obtaining
completed. If line 20a is “Yes,” check the “Yes” box on line 20b
approval from the IRS.
if required installments for the current plan year were made in
a timely manner; otherwise, check “No.” Line 22. Weighted Average Retirement Age. Enter the
weighted average retirement age for active participants. If the
Line 20c. If line 20a is “No,” or the plan had 100 or fewer
plan is in at-risk status, enter the weighted average retirement
participants on every day of the preceding plan year (as
age as if the plan were not in at-risk status. If each participant
defined for line F), the plan is not subject to the liquidity
is assumed to retire at his/her normal retirement age, enter the
requirement of Code section 430(j)(4) and ERISA section
age specified in the plan as normal retirement age. If the
303(j)(4) and this line should not be completed. Attach a
normal retirement age differs for individual participants, enter
certification by the enrolled actuary if the special rule for
the age that is the weighted average normal retirement age; do
nonrecurring circumstances is used, and label the certification
not enter “NRA.” Otherwise, enter the assumed retirement age.
“Schedule SB, line 20c –Liquidity Requirement
If the valuation uses rates of retirement at various ages, enter
Certification.” See Code section 430(j)(4)(E)(ii)(II) and ERISA
the nearest whole age that is the weighted average retirement
section 303(j)(4)(E)(ii)(II).
age.
If the plan is subject to the liquidity requirement and has a
On an attachment to Schedule SB, list the rate of
liquidity shortfall for any quarter of the plan year (see Code
retirement at each age and describe the methodology used to
section 430(j)(4)(E) and ERISA section 303(j)(4)(E)), enter the
compute the weighted average retirement age, including a
amount of the liquidity shortfall for each such quarter. If the
description of the weight applied at each potential retirement
plan was subject to the liquidity requirement but did not have a
age, and label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 22 –
liquidity shortfall, enter zero. File IRS Form 5330, Return of
Description of Weighted Average Retirement Age.”
Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans, with the IRS
to pay the 10% excise tax(es) if there is a failure to pay any Line 23. Mortality Tables. Mortality tables described in Code
section 430(h)(3), ERISA section 303(h)(3), and section
liquidity shortfall by the required due date, unless a waiver of
the 10% tax has been granted under Code section 4971(f)(4) 1.430(h)(3)-1 of the regulations as published by the IRS must
be used to determine the funding target and target normal cost
Part V – Assumptions Used To Determine Funding
for non-disabled participants and may be used to determine
Target and Target Normal Cost
the funding target and target normal cost for disabled
Line 21. Discount Rate. All discount rates are to be reported participants, unless the IRS has approved (or was deemed to
and used as published by the IRS, and are to be applied as have approved) the use of a substitute mortality table for the
annual rates without adjustment. plan. Standard mortality tables must be either applied on a
generational basis, or the tables must be updated to reflect the
Line 21a. Enter the three segment rates used to calculate the
static tables published for the year in which the valuation date
funding target and target normal cost as provided under Code
occurs. Substitute mortality tables must be applied in
section 430(h)(2)(C) and ERISA section 303(h)(2)(C) and as
accordance with the terms of the IRS ruling letter.
published by the IRS, unless the plan sponsor has elected to
use the full yield curve. If the sponsor has elected to use the Separate standard mortality tables were published by the
full yield curve, check the “N/A, full yield curve used” box. IRS for annuitants (rates applying for periods when a
participant is assumed to receive a benefit under the plan) and
Line 21b. Code section 430(h)(2)(E) and ERISA section
nonannuitants (rates applying to periods before a participant is
303(h)(2)(E) provide that the segment rate(s) used to measure
assumed to receive a benefit under the plan). If a plan has 500
the funding target and target normal cost are those published
or fewer participants as of the valuation date for the current
-86- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

plan year as reported in line 3d, column (1), the plan sponsor year, a summary of any changes in principal eligibility or benefit
can elect to use the combined mortality tables published by the provisions since the last valuation, and a description (or
IRS, which reflect combined rates for both annuitants and reasonably representative sample) of plan early retirement
nonannuitants. reduction factors and optional form conversion factors. Label the
Check the applicable box to indicate which set of mortality summary “Schedule SB, Part V – Summary of Plan
tables was used to determine the funding target and target Provisions.”
normal cost. If one set of mortality tables was used for certain Also, include any other information needed to disclose the
populations within the plan and a different set of mortality actuarial position of the plan fully and fairly.
tables was used for other populations, check the box for the Part VI – Miscellaneous Items
set of mortality tables that applied to the largest population. If
more than one set of mortality tables were used (other than for Line 24. Change in Non-Prescribed Actuarial Assumptions.
If a change has been made in the non-prescribed actuarial
disabled lives under section 430(h)(3)(D)), attach a statement
assumptions for the current plan year, check “Yes.” If the only
describing the mortality tables used for each population and
assumption changes are statutorily required changes in the
the size of that population. Label the attachment “Schedule
discount or mortality rates, or changes required for plans in at-
SB, line 23 – Information on Use of Multiple Sets of
risk status, check “No.” Include as an attachment a description
Mortality Tables.”
of any change in non-prescribed actuarial assumptions and
● Check “Prescribed–combined” if the funding target and target
justifications for any such change. (See ERISA section 103(d).)
normal cost are based on the prescribed tables with combined
Label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 24 – Change in
annuitant/nonannuitant mortality rates.
Actuarial Assumptions.”
● Check “Prescribed–separate” if the funding target and target
If the “Yes” box is checked and the non-prescribed
normal cost are based on the prescribed tables with separate
assumptions have been changed in a way that decreases the
mortality rates for nonannuitants and annuitants.
funding shortfall for the current plan year, approval for such a
● Check “Substitute” if the funding target and target normal
change may be required.
cost are based on substitute mortality tables. If substitute
mortality tables are used, attach a statement including a Line 25. Change in Method. If a change in the method has
summary of plan populations for which substitute mortality been made for the current plan year, check “Yes.” For this
tables are used, plan populations for which the prescribed purpose, a change in funding method refers to not only a
tables are used, the mortality ratio used to develop the table change in the overall method used by the plan, but also each
for any population, whether the table is constructed based on specific method of computation used in applying the overall
full or partial credibility, the partial credibility weighting factor if method. Accordingly, funding method changes include
applicable, plan populations for which the prescribed tables are modifications such as a change in the method for calculating the
used, and the last plan year for which the IRS approval of the actuarial value of assets or a change in the valuation date (not
substitute mortality tables applies. Label the attachment an exclusive list). Also check "Yes" if there has been a change
“Schedule SB, line 23 – Information on Use of Substitute in the method for determining the discount rates reported in line
Mortality Tables.” 21. In general, any changes in a plan’s method must be
Attach a statement of actuarial assumptions and funding approved by the IRS. However, see the regulations under Code
methods used to calculate the Schedule SB entries and label section 430 and Revenue Procedure 2017-56, 2017-44 IRB
the statement “Schedule SB, Part V – Statement of Actuarial 465, for circumstances in which a change in method may be
Assumptions/Methods.” The statement must describe all non- made without obtaining approval from the IRS.
prescribed actuarial assumptions (e.g., retirement, withdrawal
Include, as an attachment, a description of the change in
rates) used to determine the funding target and target normal
funding method along with the date of approval from the IRS. If
cost, including the assumption as to the frequency with which
no approval from the IRS was necessary, please provide
participants are assumed to elect each optional form of benefit
rationale as to why the change in funding method was
(including lump sum distributions), whether mortality tables are
automatically approved under Revenue Procedure 2017-56,
applied on a static or generational basis, whether combined
2017-44 IRB 465. Note that the plan sponsor’s agreement to
mortality tables are used instead of separate annuitant and
certain changes in funding methods should be reported on line 8
nonannuitant mortality tables (for plans with 500 or fewer
of Schedule R (Form 5500). Label the attachment “Schedule
participants as of the valuation date), and (for target normal SB, line 25 – Change in Method.” The information supplied in
cost) expected plan-related expenses and increases in this accompanying attachment must be complete and accurate.
compensation. For applicable defined benefit plans under Code
Note. The plan sponsor’s agreement to certain changes in
section 411(a)(13)(C) and ERISA section 203(f)(3) (e.g., cash
funding method should be reported on line 8 of Schedule R
balance plans) the statement must include the assumptions
(Form 5500).
used to convert balances to annuities. In addition, the statement
must describe the method for determining the actuarial value of
assets and any other aspects of the funding method for
determining the Schedule SB entries that are not prescribed by
law.
Also attach a summary of the principal eligibility and benefit
provisions on which the valuation was based, including the
status of the plan (e.g., frozen eligibility, service/pay, or
benefits), optional forms of benefits, special plan provisions,
including those that apply only to a subgroup of employees
(e.g., those with imputed service), supplemental benefits, and
identification of benefits not included in the valuation, a
description of any significant events that occurred during the
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -87-

Schedule SB, line 26a –Schedule of Active Participant Data
YEARS OF CREDITED SERVICE
Under 1 1 to 4 5 to 9 40 & up
Attained Average Average Average Average
Age
No. Comp. Cash Bal. No. Comp. Cash Bal. No. Comp. Cash Bal. No . Comp. Cash Bal.
Under 25
25 to 29
30 to 34
35 to 39
40 to 44
45 to 49
50 to 54
55 to 59
60 to 64
65 to 69
70 & up
Line 26a. Schedule of Active Participant Data. Check “Yes” General Rule. When all active participants in the plan have
only if (a) the plan is covered by Title IV of ERISA and (b) the a cash balance account, data to be shown in each bin includes:
plan has active participants.
1. The number of active participants in the age/service bin,
If line 26a is “Yes,” attach a schedule of the active plan 2. The average compensation of the active participants in
participant data used in the valuation for this plan year. Use the the age/service bin, and
format shown on the following page and label the schedule 3. The average cash balance account of the active
“Schedule SB, line 26a – Schedule of Active Participant participants in the age/service bin.
Data.” The attachment may be provided as a structured If the accrued benefit is the greater of a cash balance benefit
attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet file (CSV format).
or some other benefit, average in only the cash balance
Expand this schedule by adding columns after the “5 to 9” account. If the accrued benefit is the sum of a cash balance
column and before the “40 & up” column for active participants account benefit and some other benefit, average in only the
with total years of credited service in the following ranges: 10 to cash balance account. For both the average compensation and
14; 15 to 19; 20 to 24; 25 to 29; 30 to 34; and 35 to 39. For each the average cash balance account, do not enter an amount for
column, enter the number of active participants with the age/service bins with fewer than 20 active participants.
specified number of years of credited service divided according When some active participants do not have cash balance
to age group. For participants with partial years of credited
accounts, an alternative is provided for showing compensation
service, truncate the total number of years of credited. Years of
and cash balance accounts, requiring two age/service scatters
credited service are the years credited under the plan’s benefit
as follows:
formula.
● Scatter 1 – Provide participant count and average
Plans reporting 1,000 or more active participants on line 3c,
compensation for all active participants.
column (1), must also provide average compensation data. For
● Scatter 2 – Provide participant count and average cash
each grouping, enter the average compensation of the active
balance account for only those active participants with
participants in that group. For this purpose, compensation is the
account-based benefits. If the number of participants with
compensation taken into account for each participant under the account-based benefits in a bin is fewer than 20, the average
plan’s benefit formula, limited to the amount defined under account should not be shown even if there are 20 or more
section 401(a)(17) of the Code. Do not enter the average active participants in this bin on Scatter 1.
compensation in any grouping that contains fewer than 20
In general, information should be determined as of the
participants.
valuation date. Average cash balance accounts may be
In the case of a plan under which benefits are primarily pay-
determined as of either:
related and under which no future accruals are granted (i.e., a
1. The valuation date or
“hard-frozen” plan as defined in the instructions for plan
2. The day immediately preceding the valuation date.
characteristic code 1I applicable to line 8a of the Form 5500),
report the average annual accrued benefit in lieu of average Average cash balance accounts that are offset by amounts
compensation. Include a note on the scatter indicating that the from another plan may be reported either as amounts prior to
plan is “hard frozen” and the average accrued benefits are in taking into account the offset or as amounts after taking into
lieu of compensation. account the offset. Do not report the offset amount. For this or
any other unusual or unique situation, the attachment should
Cash balance plans (or any plans using characteristic code
include an explanation of what is being provided.
1C on line 8a of Form 5500) reporting 1,000 or more active
participants on line 3d, column (1), must also provide average If the plan is a multiple-employer plan, complete one or more
cash balance account data, regardless of whether all active schedules of active-participant data in a manner consistent with
participants have cash balance accounts. For each age/service the computations for the funding requirements reported in Part
bin, enter the average cash balance account of the active VIII. For example, if the funding requirements are computed as if
participants in that bin. Do not enter the average cash balance each participating employer maintained a separate plan, attach
account in any age/service bin that contains fewer than 20 a separate “Schedule SB, line 26a – Schedule of Active
active participants.
-88- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

Participant Data” for each participating employer in the 4 Plans with binding agreements with PBGC to
multiple-employer plan. maintain prefunding and/or funding standard
carryover balances described in Code section
Line 26b. Schedule of Projection of Expected Benefit
430(f)(4)(B)(ii) and ERISA section
Payments. Check “Yes” only if this plan is covered by Title IV
303(f)(4)(B)(ii)
of ERISA and has 1,000 or more total participants as of the
valuation date. 5 This code, formerly used by airlines using 10-
year amortization period for initial post-PPA
If line 26b is “Yes,” in an attachment, provide a projection of
shortfall amortization base under PPA section
benefits expected to be paid separately for active participants,
402(a)(2) (as amended), is no longer applicable
terminated vested participants, and retired participants and
and should not be used.
beneficiaries receiving payments, and for the entire plan (not to
6 Airlines with frozen plans using alternative 17-
include expected expenses) in each of the next fifty years
year funding schedule under PPA section
starting with the plan year and based on the participant’s
402(a)(1)
status as of the valuation date. For purposes of this projection,
7 Interstate transit company described in PPA
assume (1) no additional accruals, (2) experience (e.g.,
section 115
termination, mortality, and retirement) is in line with valuation
8 This code, formerly used by a plan subject to
assumptions, (3) no new entrants, and (4) benefits are paid in
PPA section 104 (as amended) that is not a
the form used to determine the funding target (i.e., if the plan is
CSEC plan, is no longer applicable and should
subject to the annuity substitution rule provided in Treasury
not be used.
Regulations section 1.430(d)-1(f)(4)(iii)(B), projected benefits
9 Community Newspaper plans and plans within
should be in an annuity form).
the controlled group that have elected to use the
Use the format shown below and label this attachment alternative funding standards described in Code
“Schedule SB, line 26b – Schedule of Projection of section 430(m)(4).
Expected Benefit Payments.” The attachment may be
provided as a structured attachment, e.g., in a spreadsheet file Special Instructions for codes 1 through 9
(CSV format).
CSEC Plans, as described in Code section 414(y) and
Schedule SB, line 26b – Schedule of Projection of subject to Code section 433 (code 1).
Expected Benefit Payments Complete only the following on Schedule SB:
Plan Active Terminated Retired Total • Lines A through F
Year Participants Vested Participants
• Part I (including signature of enrolled actuary),
Participants and
Beneficiaries determined as if PPA ’06 provisions were effective for
Receiving all plan years beginning after December 31, 2007.
Payments
• Part III, line 14, determined as if PPA ‘06 provisions
Current were effective for all plan years beginning after
Plan Year
December 31, 2007.
Current • Part IV, line 18.
Plan Year • Part V, determined as if PPA ‘06 provisions were
+ 1
effective for all plan years beginning after December
Etc. 31, 2007.
Current Also, report other information for the current plan year
Plan Year using a 2007 Schedule B (Form 5500). Label this attachment
+ 49
“Schedule SB, line 27 – Actuarial Information for CSEC
Plans.” Each attachment must include the plan name, the plan
Line 27. Alternative Funding Rules. If one of the alternative
sponsor’s name and EIN, and the plan number. Complete all
funding rules was used for this plan year, enter the appropriate
items from the 2007 Schedule B, excluding line 9f and Part II,
code from the table below and follow the special instructions
and attach the 2007 Schedule B and all applicable
applicable to that code, including completion of any required
attachments to the Schedule SB. Note that under PPA ‘06, the
attachments.
third segment rate determined under Code
Code Alternative Funding Rule section 430(h)(2)(C)(iii) and ERISA section 303(h)(2)(C)(iii) is
1 A CSEC plan that is described in Code section substituted for the current liability interest rate under Code
414(y). This includes certain multiple-employer section 412(b)(5)(B) and ERISA section 302(b)(5)(B) (as in
plans maintained by rural cooperatives and effect before PPA ‘06).
other specified cooperative organizations and If the plan’s funded percentage (as defined in Code section
certain plans maintained by more than 1 433(j)(5)(B)) as of the beginning of the plan year is less than
employer (determined after application of Code 80%, then the plan is in funding restoration status. If the plan’s
section 414(b) and (c)), all of which are enrolled actuary certifies that the plan is in funding restoration
described in Code section 501(c)(3). Do not use status for a plan year, include the following additional
Code 1 for a plan that satisfies the definition of a information in the attachment “Schedule SB, line 27 –
CSEC plan that has made the election to not be Actuarial Information for CSEC Plans:” (a) the annual
treated as a CSEC plan. certification by the enrolled actuary for the plan; and (b) the
2 This code, formerly used by certain plans value of plan assets and the funding liability, including any
maintained by PBGC settlements as described adjustments to these amounts as specified in Code section
in PPA section 105, is no longer applicable and 433(j)(4) and ERISA section 306(j)(4).
should not be used
3 Reserved
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -89-

If a plan in funding restoration status has an accumulated 3. Contribution shortfall, if any ((1)-(2) but not less than
funding deficiency based on the excess of the employer’s zero).
normal cost determined under line 9b, over the amount
Interstate transit company (code 7). Complete the entire
actually contributed to the plan for the plan year, as Schedule SB, reflecting the modifications to the otherwise-
determined under Code section 433(j)(1) and ERISA section required funding rules under PPA section 115(b), and
306(j)(1), then the details of this calculation must be included disregarding the attachment required for plans reporting the use
in the attachment “Schedule SB, line 27 – Actuarial of the substitute mortality table in line 23.
Information for CSEC Plans.” In the case of a plan for which
Community newspaper plans using alternative minimum
a spread gain funding method is used, the normal cost that is
funding standards (code 9). Complete the entire Schedule SB
used to apply this rule is the normal cost determined under the
and attachments as outlined in these instructions. However,
entry age normal cost funding method.
please complete the following lines in the manner described
Plans with binding agreements with PBGC to maintain below:
prefunding and/or carryover balances (code 4). Complete
● Funding target in line 3 should reflect the interest rates under
the entire Schedule SB and attachments as outlined in these
Code section 430(m)(4)(A).
instructions. In addition, report on an attachment the amount
subject to the binding agreement with PBGC, reported ● Effective interest rate in line 5 should reflect both the interest
separately for the funding standard carryover balance and rates under Code section 430(m)(4)(A)(i) and Code section
prefunding balance. Label the attachment “Schedule SB, line 430(m)(4)(A)(ii), if applicable.
27 – Balances Subject to Binding Agreement with PBGC.” ● Present value of current year accruals in line 6a should reflect
Airlines with frozen plans using alternative 17-year the interest rates under Code section 430(m)(4)(A).
funding schedule (code 6). Complete the following lines on ● Enter “8.00%” for each of the three segment rates in line 21a
Schedule SB and provide associated attachments: and do not check the full yield curve box, even if some or all of
● Lines A through F. the funding target or target normal cost is calculated using the
● Part I (including signature of enrolled actuary) – complete all applicable United States Treasury obligation yield curve.
lines. ● Enter “0” in line 21b.
● Parts III through VII – complete all lines.
● Shortfall amortization installments in line 32a should be the
For this purpose, disregard the special funding rules under amounts necessary to amortize the shortfall amortization base
PPA section 402(e)(3)(A) except for the information reported on of the plan year for any plan year in level annual installments
the following lines: over the 30-year period beginning with such plan year under
● Line 19 – Discount contributions to the applicable valuation Code section 430(m)(4)(C)(i).
date using the 8.85% discount rate provided under PPA Part VII – Reconciliation of Unpaid Minimum
section 402(e)(4)(B). Required Contributions for Prior Years
● Line 20 – Reflect required quarterly installments based on
Line 28. Unpaid Minimum Required Contributions for Prior
the minimum required contribution determined under PPA
Years. Enter the total amount of any unpaid minimum required
section 402(e) to the extent applicable (i.e., for purposes of
contributions for all years from line 40 of the Schedule SB for
calculating the required annual payment under Code section
the prior plan year.
430(j)(3)(D)(ii)(l) and ERISA section 303(j)(3)(D)(ii)(l)).
● Line 29 – Reflect the minimum required contribution If this is the first year that the plan is subject to the minimum
determined under PPA section 402(e) when determining the funding requirements of Code section 430 or ERISA section
unpaid minimum required contribution. 303, enter the amount of any accumulated funding deficiency at
the end of the prior year (the pre-effective plan year). This is the
Also, attach a worksheet showing the information below,
amount reported on line 9p of the 2007 Schedule B form that
determined in accordance with PPA section 402(e). Label this
was submitted as an attachment to the Schedule SB for the pre-
worksheet “Schedule SB, line 27 – Alternative 17-Year
effective plan year.
Funding Schedule for Airlines.”
● Date as of which plan benefits were frozen as required under Line 29. Employer Contributions Allocated Toward Unpaid
PPA section 402(b)(2). Minimum Required Contributions from Prior Years. Enter
the total amount of discounted contributions made for the
● Date on which the first applicable plan year began.
current plan year allocated toward unpaid minimum required
● Accrued liability under the unit credit method calculated as of
contributions from prior years as reported in line 19a.
the first day of the plan year, using an interest rate of 8.85%.
● A summary of all other assumptions used to calculate the Line 30. Remaining Unpaid Minimum Required
unit credit accrued liability. Contributions. Enter the amount in line 28 minus the amount
● Fair market value of assets as of the first day of the plan in line 29.
year. Part VIII – Minimum
● Unfunded liability under PPA section 402(e)(3)(A).
Required Contribution for Current Year
● Alternative funding schedule:
Line 31. Target Normal Cost and Excess Assets.
1. Contribution necessary to amortize the unfunded liability
over the remaining number of years, assuming payments at Line 31a. Target Normal Cost (line 6c). Enter the target
the valuation date for each plan year and using an interest rate normal cost as reported in line 6c.
of 8.85%; Line 31b. Excess Assets. Enter the excess, if any, of the
2. Employer contributions for the plan year, discounted for value of assets reported on line 2b reduced by any funding
interest to the valuation date for the plan year, and using a rate standard carryover balance and prefunding balance on line 13,
of 8.85%; and columns (a) and (b), over the funding target reported on line
3d, column (3). If the valuation date is not the first day of the
-90- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

plan year, excess assets are determined as the value of assets assets for the purpose of determining the amount of any new
reported on line 2b reduced by any funding standard carryover shortfall amortization base is the amount reported on line 2b,
balance and prefunding balance reported on line 13, columns reduced by the sum of the funding standard carryover balance
(a) and (b), adjusted for interest at the effective interest rate for and the prefunding balance reported on line 13, columns (a) and
the period between the beginning of the plan year and the (b), adjusted for interest for the period between the beginning of
valuation date, minus the funding target reported on line 3d, the plan year and the valuation date (using the effective interest
column (3) (but not less than zero). Limit the amount reported rate for the current plan year). See Code section 430(f)(4)(B)(ii)
in line 31b so that it is not greater than the target normal cost and ERISA section 303(f)(4)(B)(ii) for special rules in the case of
reported in line 31a. a binding agreement with PBGC providing that all or a portion of
the funding standard carryover balance and/or prefunding
Line 32. Amortization Installments.
balance is not available to offset the minimum required
Line 32a. Shortfall Amortization Bases and Amortization
contribution for the plan year.
Installments. Outstanding balance — If the plan’s funding
Shortfall amortization installment — Enter the sum (but not
shortfall (determined under Code section 430(c)(4) and ERISA
less than zero) of:
section 303(c)(4)) is zero, all amortization bases and related
installments are considered fully amortized. In this case, enter 1. Any shortfall amortization installments that were
zero. Otherwise, enter the sum (but not less than zero) of the established to amortize shortfall amortization bases
outstanding balances of all shortfall amortization bases established in prior years, excluding amortization installments
(including any new shortfall amortization base established for for bases that have been or are deemed to be fully amortized,
the current plan year). The outstanding balance for each and
amortization base established in past years is equal to the 2. The shortfall amortization installment that corresponds to
present value as of the valuation date of any remaining any new shortfall amortization base established for the current
amortization installments for each base (including the plan year. This amount is the level amortization payment that
amortization installment for the current plan year), using the will amortize the new shortfall amortization base over 15
interest rates reported on line 21. annual payments, using the interest rates reported in line 21
for the current plan year.
A plan is generally exempt from the requirement to establish
a new shortfall amortization base for the current plan year if the Note. Shortfall amortization installments for a given shortfall
funding target reported on line 3d, column (3), is less than or amortization base are not re-determined from year to year
equal to the reduced value of assets as described below. regardless of any changes in interest rates or valuation dates.
For the purpose of determining whether a plan is exempt Note. If an election was made to use an alternative shortfall
from the requirement to establish a new shortfall amortization amortization schedule under Code section 430(c)(2)(D) and
base for the current plan year, the reduced value of assets is the ERISA section 303(c)(2)(D) added by PRA 2010, the shortfall
amount reported on line 2b, reduced by the full value of the amortization installment is the amount determined in
prefunding balance reported on line 13, column (b), adjusted for accordance with the shortfall amortization schedule chosen
interest for the period between the beginning of the plan year and guidance issued by Treasury and the IRS. Include any
and the valuation date using the effective interest rate for the increase to the shortfall amortization installment for this year
current plan year, if the valuation date is not the first day of the due to the installment acceleration amount, as provided in
plan year. However, the assets are reduced by the prefunding Code section 430(c)(7) and ERISA section 303(c)(7).
balance if and only if the plan sponsor has elected to use any
Line 32b. Waiver Amortization Bases and Amortization
portion of the prefunding balance to offset the minimum required
Installments. Outstanding balance — If the plan’s funding
contribution for the current plan year, as reported on line 35.
shortfall (determined under Code section 430(c)(4) and ERISA
The assets are not reduced by the amount of any funding
section 303(c)(4)) is zero, all waiver amortization bases and
standard carryover balance for this calculation regardless of
related installments are considered fully amortized. In this
whether any portion of the funding standard carryover balance
case, enter zero. Otherwise, enter the present value as of the
is used to offset the minimum required contribution for the plan valuation date of all remaining waiver amortization installments
year. (including any installment for the current plan year), using the
If the plan is not exempt from the requirement to establish a interest rates reported on line 21. Do not include any new
new shortfall amortization base for the current plan year, the waiver amortization base established for a waiver of minimum
amount of that base is generally equal to the difference between funding requirements for the current plan year.
the funding shortfall as of the valuation date (determined under
Waiver amortization installments — Enter the sum of any
Code section 430(c)(4) and ERISA section 303(c)(4)) and the
remaining waiver amortization installments that were
sum of any outstanding balances of any previously established
established to amortize any waiver amortization bases for prior
shortfall and waiver amortization bases. The new shortfall
plan years, unless such bases have been or are deemed to be
amortization base may be either greater than or less than zero.
fully amortized. Do not include an amortization installment for
For the purpose of determining the amount of any new any new waiver amortization base established for a waiver of
shortfall amortization base, the funding shortfall is equal to the minimum funding requirements for the current plan year.
amount of the funding target reported on line 3d, column (3),
Note. If a waiver of minimum funding requirements has been
minus the reduced value of assets, but not less than zero.
granted for the current plan year, a waiver amortization base is
If the plan’s valuation date is the first day of the plan year, established as of the valuation date for the current plan year
then the reduced value of assets for the purpose of determining equal to the amount of the funding waiver reported in line 33.
the amount of any new shortfall amortization base is the amount The waiver amortization installment that corresponds to any
reported on line 2b, reduced by the sum of the funding standard waiver amortization base established for the current year is the
carryover balance and the prefunding balance reported on line level amortization payment that will amortize the new waiver
13, columns (a) and (b). However, if the plan’s valuation date is amortization base over 5 annual payments, using the same
not the first day of the plan year, then the reduced value of segment interest rates or rates from the full yield curve
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -91-

reported on line 21 for the current plan year, but with the first (unless the plan’s valuation date is not the first day of the plan
payment due on the valuation date for the following plan year. year, as discussed below).
The amount of the waiver amortization base and the waiver
If the plan’s valuation date is not the first day of the plan
amortization installments for this base are not reported in line year, adjust the portion of the funding standard carryover
32b for the year in which they are established. Rather, these balance and prefunding balance used to offset the minimum
are included in the entries for line 32b on the Schedule SB for required contribution for interest between the beginning of the
the following plan year. plan year and the valuation date using the effective interest rate
Note. Waiver amortization installments (including the waiver for the current plan year.
amortization installments of any waiver amortization base
Special rule for late election to apply balances to
established for the prior plan year) are not re-determined from
quarterly installments. If an election was made to use the
year to year regardless of any changes in interest rates or
funding standard carryover balance or the prefunding balance to
valuation dates.
offset the amount of a required quarterly installment, but the
Required attachment. If there are any shortfall or waiver election was made after the due date of the installment, the
amortization bases, include as an attachment a listing of all amount reported on line 35 may not be the same amount that is
bases (other than a base established for a funding waiver for the subtracted from the plan’s balances in the following plan year (to
current plan year) showing for each base: be reported in line 8 of Schedule SB for the following plan year).
Refer to the regulations under Section 430 of the Code for
1. The type of base (shortfall or waiver),
additional information.
2. The present value of any remaining installments
(including the installment for the current plan year), Special rule for elections to use balances in excess of
3. The valuation date as of which the base was established, the minimum required contribution. Section 1.430(f)-1(f)(3)(ii)
4. The number of years remaining in the amortization of the regulations provides an exception to the general rule
period, and requiring that any elections to use the funding standard
5. The amortization installment. carryover balance and/or prefunding balance to offset the
If a base is negative (i.e., a “gain base”), show amounts in minimum required contribution are irrevocable. Under this
parentheses or with a negative sign in front of them. All exception, such an election may be revoked to the extent that
amounts must be calculated as of the valuation date for the the amount of the election exceeds the minimum required
plan year. contribution for the plan year as reported in line 34. If a timely
election is made to revoke the excess amount, report only the
If any of the shortfall amortization bases shown on this
amount of the election used to offset the minimum required
attachment are being amortized using an alternative
contribution on line 35. If the excess amount is not revoked by
amortization schedule in accordance with Code section
means of a timely election, report the full amount of the election
430(c)(2)(D) or ERISA section 303(c)(2)(D), identify the
on line 35 even if it exceeds the minimum required contribution
amortization schedule being used and show separately the
reported on line 34.
amount of any installment acceleration amount added to the
shortfall amortization installment for the current plan year Line 36. Additional Cash Requirement. Enter the amount in
line 34 minus the amount in the “Total Balance” column in line
under Code section 430(c)(7) or ERISA section 303(c)(7).
Label the schedule “Schedule SB, line 32 – Schedule of 35. (The result cannot be less than zero.) This represents the
Amortization Bases.” contribution needed to satisfy the minimum funding
requirement for the current year, adjusted for interest to the
Line 33. Funding Waiver. If a waiver of minimum funding
valuation date.
requirements has been approved for the current plan year,
enter the date of the ruling letter granting the approval and the Line 37. Contributions Allocated Toward Minimum
waived amount (reported as of the valuation date) in the Required Contribution for Current Year, Adjusted to
spaces provided. If a waiver is pending, do not complete this Valuation Date. Enter the amount reported in line 19c.
line. If a pending waiver is granted after Form 5500 is filed, file Line 38. Present Value of Excess Contributions for Current
an amended Form 5500 with an amended Schedule SB. Year.
Line 34. Total Funding Requirement Before Reflecting Line 38a. If line 37 is greater than line 36, enter the amount by
Carryover/Prefunding Balances. Enter the target normal cost which line 37 exceeds line 36. Otherwise, enter “0.” This
in line 31a, minus the excess assets in line 31b, plus the amount (plus interest, if applicable) is the maximum amount by
amortization installments reported in lines 32a and 32b, which the plan sponsor may elect to increase the prefunding
reduced by any waived amounts reported in line 33. balance.
Line 35. Balances Elected for Use to Offset Funding Line 38b. Enter the amount of any portion of the amount
Requirement. If the percentage reported on line 16 is at least shown on line 38a that results solely from the use of the
80%, and the plan has a funding standard carryover balance funding standard carryover balance and/or prefunding balance
and/or prefunding balance (as reported on line 13, columns (a) to offset the minimum required contribution.
and (b)), the plan sponsor may elect to credit all or a portion of Line 39. Unpaid Minimum Required Contribution for
such balances against the minimum required contribution.
Current Year. If line 37 is less than line 36, enter the amount
Enter the amount of any balance elected for use for this
by which line 36 exceeds line 37. Otherwise, enter “0”.
purpose in the applicable column of line 35, and enter the total
Line 40. Unpaid Minimum Required Contributions for All
in the column headed “Total Balance.” No portion of the
Years. Enter the sum of the remaining unpaid minimum
prefunding balance can be used for this purpose unless the full
required contributions from line 30 and the unpaid minimum
amount of any remaining funding standard carryover balance
required contribution for the current year from line 39. If this
(line 13, column (a)) is used. The amounts entered on line 35
amount is greater than zero, file IRS Form 5330, Return of
cannot be larger than the corresponding amounts on line 13
Excise Taxes Related to Employee Benefit Plans and pay the
-92- Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500)

10% excise tax on the unpaid minimum required contributions. Part IX –Pension Funding Relief under the American
In addition, if this is a PBGC-covered plan and reporting to Rescue Plan Act of 2021
PBGC is not waived under 29 CFR 4043.25(c), file PBGC
Line 41. If an election was made under Code section 430(c)(8)
Form 10 or PBGC Form 200, whichever is applicable.
or ERISA section 303(c)(8) to apply the extended amortization
rule for a plan year beginning on or before December 31,
2021, check the box to indicate the first plan year for which the
rule applies (i.e., the box for the 2019, 2020, or 2021 plan
year).
Instructions for Schedule SB (Form 5500) -93-

OMB Control Numbers
Agency OMB Number
Employee Benefits Security Administration............................................... 1210 - 0110 and 1210 - 0089
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ..................................................... 1212 - 0057
Internal Revenue Service ............................................................................ 1545 - 1610
Paperwork Reduction Act Notice
We ask for the information on this form to carry out the law as specified in ERISA and in Code sections 6047(e), 6058(a), and
6059(a). You are required to give us the information. We need it to determine whether the plan is operating according to the law.
You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form
displays a valid OMB control number. Books and records relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as their
contents may become material in the administration of the Internal Revenue Code or are required to be maintained under Title I or IV
of ERISA. Generally, the Form 5500 return/reports are open to public inspection and are subject to publication on the Internet.
The time needed to complete and file the forms listed below reflects the combined requirements of the Internal Revenue Service,
Department of Labor, and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. These times will vary depending on individual circumstances. The
estimated average times are:
Pension Plans Welfare Plans
Large Small Large Small
Form 5500 1 hr., 50 min. 1 hr., 19 min. 1 hr., 45 min. 1 hr., 14 min.
Schedule A 2 hr., 52 min. 2 hr., 52 min. 3 hr., 40 min. 2 hr., 43 min.
Schedule C 2 hr., 51 min N/A 3 hr., 38 min. N/A
Schedule D 1 hr., 39 min. 20 min. 1 hr., 52 min. 20 min.
Schedule DCG 1 hr., 33 min. N/A N/A N/A
Schedule G 14 hr., 49 min. N/A 11 hr., 0 min. N/A
Schedule H 7 hr., 40 min. N/A 8 hr., 36 min. N/A
Schedule I N/A 2 hr., 6 min. N/A 1 hr., 56 min.
Schedule MB 8 hr., 52 min. 8 hr., 40 min. N/A N/A
Schedule MEP 14 min. 10 min. N/A N/A
Schedule R 1 hr., 43 min. 1 hr., 7 min. N/A N/A
Schedule SB 6 hr., 38 min. 6 hr., 49 min. N/A N/A
If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time estimates or suggestions for making these forms simpler, we would
be happy to hear from you. You can write to the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Products Coordinating Committee,
SE:W:CAR:MP:T:T:SP, 1111 Constitution Ave NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Do not send any of these forms or schedules to
this address. The forms and schedules must be filed electronically. See How To File – Electronic Filing Requirement.
-94-

Forms 5500, 5500-SF, and This list of principal business activities and their associated codes These principal activity codes are based on the North American
is designed to classify an enterprise by the type of activity in Industry Classification System.
5500-EZ Codes for Principal
which it is engaged.
Business Activity
Code Code Code Code
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing Specialty Trade Contractors Printing and Related Support Computer and Electronic Product
and Hunting 238100 Foundation, Structure, & Activities Manufacturing
Crop Production Building Exterior Contractors 323100 Printing & Related Support 334110 Computer & Peripheral
111100 Oilseed & Grain Farming (including framing carpentry, Activities Equipment Mfg
111210 Vegetable & Melon Farming masonry, glass, roofing, & Petroleum and Coal Products 334200 Communications Equipment
(including potatoes & yams) siding) Manufacturing Mfg
111300 Fruit & Tree Nut Farming 238210 Electrical Contractors 324110 Petroleum Refineries 334310 Audio & Video Equipment Mfg
111400 Greenhouse, Nursery, & 238220 Plumbing, Heating, & (including integrated) 334410 Semiconductor & Other
Floriculture Production Air-Conditioning Contractors 324120 Asphalt Paving, Roofing, & Electronic Component Mfg
111900 Other Crop Farming 238290 Other Building Equipment Saturated Materials Mfg 334500 Navigational, Measuring,
(including tobacco, cotton, Contractors 324190 Other Petroleum & Coal Electromedical, & Control
sugarcane, hay, peanut, 238300 Building Finishing Products Mfg Instruments Mfg
sugar beet, & all other crop Contractors (including Chemical Manufacturing 334610 Manufacturing & Reproducing
farming) drywall, insulation, painting, 325100 Basic Chemical Mfg Magnetic & Optical Media
Animal Production wallcovering, flooring, tile, & 325200 Resin, Synthetic Rubber, & Electrical Equipment, Appliance, and
112111 Beef Cattle Ranching & finish carpentry) Artificial & Synthetic Fibers & Component Manufacturing
Farming 238900 Other Specialty Trade Filaments Mfg 335100 Electric Lighting Equipment
112112 Cattle Feedlots Contractors (including site 325300 Pesticide, Fertilizer, & Other Mfg
112120 Dairy Cattle & Milk preparation) Agricultural Chemical Mfg 335200 Major Household Appliance Mfg
Production Manufacturing 325410 Pharmaceutical & Medicine Mfg 335310 Electrical Equipment Mfg
112210 Hog & Pig Farming Food Manufacturing 325500 Paint, Coating, & Adhesive Mfg 335900 Other Electrical Equipment &
112300 Poultry & Egg Production 311110 Animal Food Mfg 325600 Soap, Cleaning Compound, & Component Mfg
112400 Sheep & Goat Farming 311200 Grain & Oilseed Milling Toilet Preparation Mfg Transportation Equipment
112510 Aquaculture (including 311300 Sugar & Confectionary 325900 Other Chemical Product & Manufacturing
shellfish & finfish farms & Product Mfg Preparation Mfg 336100 Motor Vehicle Mfg
hatcheries) 311400 Fruit & Vegetable Preserving Plastics and Rubber Products 336210 Motor Vehicle Body & Trailer
112900 Other Animal Production & Specialty Food Mfg Manufacturing Mfg
Forestry and Logging 311500 Dairy Product Mfg 326100 Plastics Product Mfg 336300 Motor Vehicle Parts Mfg
113110 Timber Tract Operations 311610 Animal Slaughtering and 326200 Rubber Product Mfg 336410 Aerospace Product & Parts
113210 Forest Nurseries & Gathering Processing Nonmetallic Mineral Product Mfg
of Forest Products 311710 Seafood Product Preparation Manufacturing 336510 Railroad Rolling Stock Mfg
113310 Logging & Packaging 327100 Clay Product & Refractory Mfg 336610 Ship & Boat Building
Fishing, Hunting and Trapping 311800 Bakeries, Tortilla & Dry Pasta 327210 Glass & Glass Product Mfg 336990 Other Transportation
114110 Fishing Mfg 327300 Cement & Concrete Product Mfg Equipment Mfg
114210 Hunting & Trapping 311900 Other Food Mfg (including 327400 Lime & Gypsum Product Mfg Furniture and Related Product
Support Activities for Agriculture coffee, tea, flavorings & 327900 Other Nonmetallic Mineral Manufacturing
and Forestry seasonings) Product Mfg 337000 Furniture & Related Product
115110 Support Activities for Crop Beverage and Tobacco Product Primary Metal Manufacturing Manufacturing
Production (including cotton Manufacturing 331110 Iron & Steel Mills & Ferroalloy Miscellaneous Manufacturing
ginning, soil preparation, 312110 Soft Drink & Ice Mfg Mfg 339110 Medical Equipment &
planting, & cultivating) 312120 Breweries 331200 Steel Product Mfg from Supplies Mfg
115210 Support Activities for Animal 312130 Wineries Purchased Steel 339900 Other Miscellaneous Mfg
Production 312140 Distilleries 331310 Alumina & Aluminum Wholesale Trade
115310 Support Activities for 312200 Tobacco Manufacturing Production & Processing Merchant Wholesalers, Durable
Forestry Textile Mills and Textile Product 331400 Nonferrous Metal (except Goods
Mining Mills Aluminum) Production & 423100 Motor Vehicle, & Motor
211120 Crude Petroleum Extraction 313000 Textile Mills Processing Vehicle Parts & Supplies
211130 Natural Gas Extraction 314000 Textile Product Mills 331500 Foundries 423200 Furniture & Home Furnishings
212110 Coal Mining Apparel Manufacturing Fabricated Metal Product 423300 Lumber & Other Construction
212200 Metal Ore Mining 315100 Apparel Knitting Mills Manufacturing Materials
212310 Stone Mining & Quarrying 315210 Cut & Sew Apparel 332110 Forging & Stamping 423400 Professional & Commercial
212320 Sand, Gravel, Clay, & Contractors 332210 Cutlery & Handtool Mfg Equipment & Supplies
Ceramic & Refractory 315220 Men’s & Boys’ Cut & Sew 332300 Architectural & Structural 423500 Metal & Mineral (except
Minerals Mining, & Quarrying Apparel Mfg. Metals Mfg petroleum)
212390 Other Nonmetallic Mineral 315240 Women’s, Girls’ and Infants’ 332400 Boiler, Tank, & Shipping 423600 Household Appliances and
Mining & Quarrying Cut & Sew Apparel Mfg. Container Mfg Electrical & Electronic Goods
213110 Support Activities for Mining 315280 Other Cut & Sew Apparel Mfg 332510 Hardware Mfg 423700 Hardware, Plumbing, &
Utilities 315990 Apparel Accessories & Other 332610 Spring & Wire Product Mfg Heating Equipment &
221100 Electric Power Generation, Apparel Mfg 332700 Machine Shops; Turned Supplies
Transmission & Distribution Leather and Allied Product Product; & Screw, Nut, & Bolt 423800 Machinery, Equipment, &
221210 Natural Gas Distribution Manufacturing Mfg Supplies
221300 Water, Sewage & Other 316110 Leather & Hide Tanning, & 332810 Coating, Engraving, Heat 423910 Sporting & Recreational
Systems Finishing Treating, & Allied Activities Goods & Supplies
221500 Combination Gas & Electric 316210 Footwear Mfg (including 332900 Other Fabricated Metal 423920 Toy, & Hobby Goods, &
Construction rubber & plastics) Product Mfg Supplies
Construction of Buildings 316990 Other Leather & Allied Machinery Manufacturing 423930 Recyclable Materials
236110 Residential Building Product Mfg 333100 Agriculture, Construction, & 423940 Jewelry, Watch, Precious
Construction Wood Product Manufacturing Mining Machinery Mfg Stone, & Precious Metals
236200 Nonresidential Building 321110 Sawmills & Wood 333200 Industrial Machinery Mfg 423990 Other Miscellaneous Durable
Construction Preservation 333310 Commercial & Service Goods
Heavy and Civil Engineering 321210 Veneer, Plywood, & Industry Machinery Mfg Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable
Construction Engineered Wood Product 333410 Ventilation, Heating, Goods
237100 Utility System Construction Mfg Air-Conditioning, & 424100 Paper & Paper Products
237210 Land Subdivision 321900 Other Wood Product Mfg Commercial Refrigeration 424210 Drugs & Druggists’ Sundries
237310 Highway, Street, & Bridge Paper Manufacturing Equipment Mfg 424300 Apparel, Piece Goods, &
322100 Pulp, Paper, & Paperboard 333510 Metalworking Machinery Mfg Notions
237990 Other Heavy & Civil Mills 333610 Engine, Turbine & Power 424400 Grocery & Related Products
Engineering Construction 322200 Converted Paper Product Mfg Transmission Equipment Mfg 424500 Farm Product Raw Materials
333900 Other General Purpose 424600 Chemical & Allied Products
Machinery Mfg
-95-

Forms 5500, 5500-SF, and 5500-EZ Codes for Principal Business Activity (continued)
Code Code Code Code
424700 Petroleum & Petroleum 448140 Family Clothing Stores Support Activities for Transportation Securities, Commodity Contracts,
Products 448150 Clothing Accessories Stores 488100 Support Activities for Air and Other Financial Investments and
424800 Beer, Wine, & Distilled 448190 Other Clothing Stores Transportation Related Activities
Alcoholic Beverages 448210 Shoe Stores 488210 Support Activities for Rail 523110 Investment Banking &
424910 Farm Supplies 448310 Jewelry Stores Transportation Securities Dealing
424920 Book, Periodical, & 448320 Luggage & Leather Goods 488300 Support Activities for Water 523120 Securities Brokerage
Newspapers Stores Transportation 523130 Commodity Contracts Dealing
424930 Flower, Nursery Stock, & Sporting Goods, Hobby, Book, and 488410 Motor Vehicle Towing 523140 Commodity Contracts
Florists’ Supplies Music Stores 488490 Other Support Activities for Brokerage
424940 Tobacco & Tobacco Products 451110 Sporting Goods Stores Road Transportation 523210 Securities & Commodity
424950 Paint, Varnish, & Supplies 451120 Hobby, Toy, & Game Stores 488510 Freight Transportation Exchanges
424990 Other Miscellaneous 451130 Sewing, Needlework, & Piece Arrangement 523900 Other Financial Investment
Nondurable Goods Goods Stores 488990 Other Support Activities for Activities (including portfolio
Wholesale Electronic Markets and 451140 Musical Instrument & Transportation management & investment
Agents and Brokers Supplies Stores Couriers and Messengers advice)
425110 Business to Business 451211 Book Stores 492110 Couriers Insurance Carriers and Related
Electronic Markets 451212 News Dealers & Newsstands 492210 Local Messengers & Local Activities
425120 Wholesale Trade Agents & General Merchandise Stores Delivery 524130 Reinsurance Carriers
Brokers 452200 Department Stores Warehousing and Storage 524140 Direct Life, Health, & Medical
Retail Trade 452300 General Merchandise Stores, 493100 Warehousing & Storage Insurance Carriers
Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers incl. Warehouse Clubs & (except lessors of 524150 Direct Insurance (except Life,
Supercenters miniwarehouses & self-storage Health & Medical) Carriers
441110 New Car Dealers units) 524210 Insurance Agencies &
441120 Used Car Dealers Miscellaneous Store Retailers Brokerages
441210 Recreational Vehicle Dealers 453110 Florists Information 524290 Other Insurance Related
441222 Boat Dealers 453210 Office Supplies & Stationery Publishing Industries (except Internet) Activities (including third-
441228 Motorcycle, ATV, and All Stores 511110 Newspaper Publishers party administration of
Other Motor Vehicle Dealers 453220 Gift, Novelty, & Souvenir 511120 Periodical Publishers Insurance and pension funds)
441300 Automotive Parts, Stores 511130 Book Publishers Funds, Trusts, and Other Financial
Accessories, & Tire Stores 453310 Used Merchandise Stores 511140 Directory & Mailing List Vehicles
Furniture and Home Furnishings 453910 Pet & Pet Supplies Stores Publishers 525100 Insurance & Employee
Stores 453920 Art Dealers 511190 Other Publishers Benefit Funds
442110 Furniture Stores 453930 Manufactured (Mobile) Home 511210 Software Publishers 525910 Open-End Investment Funds
442210 Floor Covering Stores Dealers Motion Picture and Sound Recording (Form 1120-RIC)
442291 Window Treatment Stores 453990 All Other Miscellaneous Store Industries 525920 Trusts, Estates, & Agency
442299 All Other Home Furnishings Retailers (including tobacco, 512100 Motion Picture & Video Accounts
Stores candle, & trophy shops) Industries (except video rental) 525990 Other Financial Vehicles
Electronics and Appliance Stores Nonstore Retailers 512200 Sound Recording Industries (including mortgage REITs &
443141 Household Appliance Stores 454110 Electronic Shopping & Broadcasting (except Internet) closed-end investment funds)
443142 Electronics Stores (including Mail-Order Houses 515100 Radio & Television “Offices of Bank Holding Companies”
Audio, Video, Computer, and 454210 Vending Machine Operators Broadcasting and “Offices of Other Holding Companies”
Camera Stores) 454310 Fuel Dealers (including Heating 515210 Cable & Other Subscription are located under Management
Building Material and Garden Oil and Liquefied Petroleum) Programming of Companies (Holding Companies).
Equipment and Supplies Dealers 454390 Other Direct Selling Telecommunications Real Estate and Rental and
444110 Home Centers Establishments (including 517000 Telecommunications Leasing
444120 Paint & Wallpaper Stores door-to-door retailing, frozen (including paging, cellular, Real Estate
food plan providers, party satellite, cable & other program 531110 Lessors of Residential
444130 Hardware Stores plan merchandisers, & distribution, resellers, other Buildings & Dwellings
444190 Other Building Material coffee-break service providers) telecommunications, & (including equity REITs)
Dealers Transportation and internet service providers) 531120 Lessors of Nonresidential
444200 Lawn & Garden Equipment & Warehousing Data Processing Services Buildings (except
Supplies Stores Air, Rail, and Water Transportation 518210 Data Processing, Hosting, & Miniwarehouses) (including
Food and Beverage Stores 481000 Air Transportation Related Services equity REITs)
445110 Supermarkets and Other 482110 Rail Transportation Other Information Services 531130 Lessors of Miniwarehouses &
Grocery (except 483000 Water Transportation 519100 Other Information Services Self-Storage Units (including
Convenience) Stores Truck Transportation (including news syndicates, equity REITs)
445120 Convenience Stores 484110 General Freight Trucking, libraries, internet publishing & 531190 Lessors of Other Real Estate
445210 Meat Markets Local broadcasting) Property (including equity
445220 Fish & Seafood Markets 484120 General Freight Trucking, Finance and Insurance REITs)
445230 Fruit & Vegetable Markets Long-distance Depository Credit Intermediation 531210 Offices of Real Estate Agents
445291 Baked Goods Stores 484200 Specialized Freight Trucking 522110 Commercial Banking & Brokers
445292 Confectionery & Nut Stores Transit and Ground Passenger 522120 Savings Institutions 531310 Real Estate Property
445299 All Other Specialty Food Transportation 522130 Credit Unions Managers
Stores 485110 Urban Transit Systems 522190 Other Depository Credit 531320 Offices of Real Estate
445310 Beer, Wine, & Liquor Stores 485210 Interurban & Rural Bus Intermediation Appraisers
Health and Personal Care Stores Transportation Nondepository Credit Intermediation 531390 Other Activities Related to
446110 Pharmacies & Drug Stores 485310 Taxi Service 522210 Credit Card Issuing Real Estate
446120 Cosmetics, Beauty Supplies, 485320 Limousine Service 522220 Sales Financing Rental and Leasing Services
& Perfume Stores 485410 School & Employee Bus 522291 Consumer Lending 532100 Automotive Equipment Rental &
446130 Optical Goods Stores Transportation 522292 Real Estate Credit Leasing
446190 Other Health & Personal 485510 Charter Bus Industry (including mortgage bankers & 532210 Consumer Electronics &
Care Stores 485990 Other Transit & Ground originators) Appliances Rental
Gasoline Stations Passenger Transportation 522293 International Trade Financing 532281 Formal Wear & Costume Rental
447100 Gasoline Stations (including Pipeline Transportation 522294 Secondary Market Financing 532282 Video Tape & Disc Rental
convenience stores with gas) 486000 Pipeline Transportation 522298 All Other Nondepository
Clothing and Clothing Accessories Scenic & Sightseeing Transportation Credit Intermediation
Stores 487000 Scenic & Sightseeing Activities Related to Credit
448110 Men’s Clothing Stores Transportation Intermediation
448120 Women’s Clothing Stores 522300 Activities Related to Credit
448130 Children’s & Infants’ Clothing Intermediation (including loan
Stores brokers, check clearing, &
money transmitting)
-96-

Forms 5500, 5500-SF, and 5500-EZ Codes for Principal Business Activity (continued)
Code Code Code Code
532283 Home Health Equipment Administrative and Support and Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories Other Services
Rental Waste Management and 621510 Medical & Diagnostic Repair and Maintenance
532284 Recreational Goods Rental Remediation Services Laboratories 811110 Automotive Mechanical, &
532289 All Other Consumer Goods Administration and Support Services Home Health Care Services Electrical Repair &
Rental 561110 Office Administrative Services 621610 Home Health Care Services Maintenance
532310 General Rental Centers 561210 Facilities Support Services Other Ambulatory Health Care Services 811120 Automotive Body, Paint,
532400 Commercial & Industrial 561300 Employment Services 621900 Other Ambulatory Health Care Interior, & Glass Repair
Machinery & Equipment 561410 Document Preparation Services Services (including ambulance 811190 Other Automotive Repair &
Rental & Leasing 561420 Telephone Call Centers services & blood & organ banks) Maintenance (including oil
Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible 561430 Business Service Centers Hospitals change & lubrication shops &
Assets (except copyrighted works) (including private mail centers 622000 Hospitals car washes)
533110 Lessors of Nonfinancial & copy shops) Nursing and Residential Care 811210 Electronic & Precision
Intangible Assets (except 561440 Collection Agencies Facilities Equipment Repair &
copyrighted works) 561450 Credit Bureaus 623000 Nursing & Residential Care Maintenance
Professional, Scientific, and 561490 Other Business Support Facilities 811310 Commercial & Industrial
Technical Services Services (including Social Assistance Machinery & Equipment
Legal Services repossession services, court 624100 Individual & Family Services (except Automotive &
541110 Offices of Lawyers reporting, & stenotype 624200 Community Food & Housing, & Electronic) Repair &
541190 Other Legal Services services) Emergency & Other Relief Maintenance
Accounting, Tax Preparation, 561500 Travel Arrangement & Services 811410 Home & Garden Equipment &
Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services Reservation Services 624310 Vocational Rehabilitation Appliance Repair &
541211 Offices of Certified Public 561600 Investigation & Security Services Maintenance
Accountants Services 624410 Child Day Care Services 811420 Reupholstery & Furniture
541213 Tax Preparation Services 561710 Exterminating & Pest Control Arts, Entertainment, and Repair
541214 Payroll Services Services Recreation 811430 Footwear & Leather Goods
541219 Other Accounting Services 561720 Janitorial Services Performing Arts, Spectator Sports, Repair
Architectural, Engineering, and 561730 Landscaping Services and Related Industries 811490 Other Personal & Household
Related Services 561740 Carpet & Upholstery Cleaning 711100 Performing Arts Companies Goods Repair & Maintenance
541310 Architectural Services Services 711210 Spectator Sports (including Personal and Laundry Services
541320 Landscape Architecture 561790 Other Services to Buildings & sports clubs & racetracks) 812111 Barber Shops
Services Dwellings 711300 Promoters of Performing Arts, 812112 Beauty Salons
541330 Engineering Services 561900 Other Support Services Sports, & Similar Events 812113 Nail Salons
541340 Drafting Services (including packaging & 711410 Agents & Managers for 812190 Other Personal Care
541350 Building Inspection Services labeling services, & convention Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, & Services (including diet &
541360 Geophysical Surveying & & trade show organizers) Other Public Figures weight reducing centers)
Mapping Services Waste Management and 711510 Independent Artists, Writers, & 812210 Funeral Homes & Funeral
541370 Surveying & Mapping (except Remediation Services Performers Services
Geophysical) Services 562000 Waste Management and Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar 812220 Cemeteries & Crematories
541380 Testing Laboratories Remediation Services Institutions 812310 Coin-Operated Laundries &
Specialized Design Services Educational Services 712100 Museums, Historical Sites, & Drycleaners
541400 Specialized Design Services 611000 Educational Services Similar Institutions 812320 Drycleaning & Laundry
(including interior, industrial, (including schools, colleges, Amusements, Gambling, and Services (except
graphic, & fashion design) & universities) Recreation Industries Coin-Operated)
Computer Systems Design and Health Care and Social Assistance 713100 Amusement Parks & Arcades 812330 Linen & Uniform Supply
Related Services Offices of Physicians and Dentists 713200 Gambling Industries 812910 Pet Care (except Veterinary)
541511 Custom Computer 621111 Offices of Physicians (except 713900 Other Amusement & Services
Programming Services mental health specialists) Recreation Industries 812920 Photofinishing
541512 Computer Systems Design 621112 Offices of Physicians, Mental (including golf courses, skiing 812930 Parking Lots & Garages
Services Health Specialists facilities, marinas, fitness 812990 All Other Personal Services
541513 Computer Facilities 621210 Offices of Dentists centers, & bowling centers) Religious, Grantmaking, Civic,
Management Services Offices of Other Health Practitioners Accommodation and Food Services Professional, and Similar
541519 Other Computer Related 621310 Offices of Chiropractors Accommodation Organizations
Services 621320 Offices of Optometrists 721110 Hotels (except Casino Hotels) & 813000 Religious, Grantmaking,
Other Professional, Scientific, and 621330 Offices of Mental Health Motels Civic, Professional, & Similar
Technical Services Practitioners (except 721120 Casino Hotels Organizations (including
541600 Management, Scientific, & Physicians) 721191 Bed & Breakfast Inns condominium and
Technical Consulting Services 621340 Offices of Physical, 721199 All other Traveler homeowners associations)
541700 Scientific Research & Occupational & Speech Accommodation 813930 Labor Unions and Similar
Development Services Therapists, & Audiologists 721210 RV (Recreational Vehicle) Labor Organizations
541800 Advertising & Related 621391 Offices of Podiatrists Parks & Recreational Camps 921000 Governmental Instrumentality
Services 621399 Offices of all Other 721310 Rooming and Boarding Houses, or Agency
541910 Marketing Research & Public Miscellaneous Health Dormitories, and Workers’
Opinion Polling Practitioners Camps
541920 Photographic Services Outpatient Care Centers Food Services and Drinking Places
541930 Translation & Interpretation 621410 Family Planning Centers 722300 Special Food Services
Services 621420 Outpatient Mental Health & (including food service
541940 Veterinary Services Substance Abuse Centers contractors & caterers)
541990 All Other Professional, 621491 HMO Medical Centers 722410 Drinking Places (Alcoholic
Scientific, & Technical 621492 Kidney Dialysis Centers Beverages)
Services 621493 Freestanding Ambulatory 722511 Full-Service Restaurants
Management of Companies Surgical & Emergency Centers 722513 Limited-Service Restaurants
722514 Cafeterias and Buffets
(Holding Companies) 621498 All Other Outpatient Care
Beverage Bars
551111 Offices of Bank Holding Centers 722515 Snack and Non-alcoholic
Companies Beverage Bars
551112 Offices of Other Holding
Companies
-97-

ERISA COMPLIANCE QUICK CHECKLIST
Compliance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) begins with knowing the rules. Plan administrators and
other plan officials can use this checklist as a quick diagnostic tool for assessing a plan’s compliance with certain important
ERISA rules; it is not a complete description of all ERISA’s rules and it is not a substitute for a comprehensive compliance
review. Use of this checklist is voluntary, and it is not to be filed with your Form 5500.
If you answer “No” to any of the questions below, you should review your plan’s operations because you may not be in
full compliance with ERISA’s requirements.
1. Have you provided plan participants with a summary plan description, summaries of any material modifications of the
plan, and annual summary financial reports or annual pension funding reports?
2. Do you maintain copies of plan documents at the principal office of the plan administrator for examination by
participants and beneficiaries?
3. Do you respond to written participant inquires for copies of plan documents and information within 30 days?
4. Does your plan include written procedures for making benefit claims and appealing denied claims, and are you
complying with those procedures?
5. Is your plan covered by fidelity bonds protecting the plan against losses due to fraud or dishonesty by persons who
handle plan funds or other property?
6. Are the plan’s investments diversified so as to minimize the risk of large losses?
7. If the plan permits participants to select the investments in their plan accounts, has the plan provided them with
enough information to make informed decisions?
8. Has a plan official determined that the investments are prudent and solely in the interest of the plan’s participants and
beneficiaries, and evaluated the risks associated with plan investments before making the investments?
9. Did the employer or other plan sponsor send participant contributions to the plan on a timely basis?
10. Did the plan pay participant benefits on time and in the correct amounts?
11. Did the plan give participants and beneficiaries 30 days advance notice before imposing a “blackout period” of at least
three consecutive business days during which participants or beneficiaries of a 401(k) or other individual account
pension plan were unable to change their plan investments, obtain loans from the plan, or obtain distributions from
the plan?
If you answer “Yes” to any of the questions below, you should review your plan’s operations because you may not be
in full compliance with ERISA’s requirements.
1. Has the plan engaged in any financial transactions with persons related to the plan or any plan official? (For example,
has the plan made a loan to or participated in an investment with the employer?)
2. Has a plan official used the assets of the plan for his/her own interest?
3. Have plan assets been used to pay expenses that were not authorized in the plan document, were not necessary for
the proper administration of the plan, or were more than reasonable in amount?
If you need help answering these questions or want additional guidance about ERISA requirements, a plan official
should contact the U.S. Department of Labor Employee Benefits Security Administration office in your region or consult
with the plan’s legal counsel or professional employee benefit advisor.
-98-

Plan Characteristic Codes............ 21
Index I
Plan Sponsor ............................... 18
Information Concerning Insurance
Pooled Separate Account (PSA) 11
Contract Coverage, Fees, and
Provision of Information............... 25
Commissions ............................. 23
80-120 Participant Rule ………. ...... 8
Instructions to Form 5500 … ........ 15
103-12 Investment Entity
Instructions for Schedule A: Q
(103-12 IE).................................. 11
Who Must File............................ 23 Quick Reference Chart of Form
Instructions for Schedule C: 5500, Schedules, and
A Who Must File............................ 26 Attachments…..………………13
About the Form 5500...................... 1 Instructions for Schedule D:
Additional Employer Information Who Must File............................ 31
R
for Multiemployer Defined Instructions for Schedule DCG:
Reportable Transaction ............... 52
Benefit Pension Plans ............ 74 Who Must File............................ 33
Additional Information for Instructions for Schedule G:
Single-Employer and Who Must File............................ 41 S
Multiemployer Defined Instructions for Schedule H: Schedule of Reportable
Benefit Pension Plans ........... 76 Who Must File............................ 43 Transactions ........................ 52
Amended Return/Report ................ 6 Instructions for Schedule I: Service Provider Information....... 26
Amendments ................................ 74 Who Must File............................ 55 Service Providers Who Fail or
Instructions for Schedule MB: Refuse To Provide
Statement by Enrolled Information............................ 29
C
Actuary ................................... 63 Short Plan Year Rule .................... 8
Change in Plan Year ...................... 7
Who Must File............................ 63 Signature and Date........................ 6
Changes to Note ............................. 1
Instructions for Schedule MEP: Small Plan Financial
Combination Unfunded/Insured
Who Must File............................ 71 Information............................ 55
Welfare Plan ................................ 3
Instructions for Schedule R: Special rule for certain
Common/Collective Trust ............. 11
Who Must File............................ 73 participant-directed
Instructions for Schedule SB: transactions .......................... 52
D Statement by Enrolled Statement by Enrolled
Delinquent Filer Voluntary Actuary ................................... 80 Actuary.................................. 63
Compliance (DFVC) Program ....... 5 Who Must File............................ 79
Defined Contribution Group Investment and Annuity
T
Reporting Arrangements (DCGs or Contract Information.................. 24
Telephone Assistance ................... 2
DCG Report Arrangements.......... 12
Termination Information on
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) – Who
L Accountants and Enrolled
Must File ...................................... 4
Leases in Default or Classified Actuaries............................... 30
Direct Filing Entity (DFE) – Filing
As Uncollectible ……………… . 41
Requirements ............................ 10
Limited Pension Plan Reporting..... 9
Distributions .................................. 73 U
Loans or Fixed Income
Unfunded Welfare Benefit Plan..... 3
Obligations in Default or
E Classified As Uncollectible........ 41
EFAST2 Processing System.......... 1 W
Electronic Filing Requirement ........ 5 Welfare Benefit Contract
M
ESOP Information......................... 74 Information............................ 25
M-1 Compliance Information ........ 20
Extension of Time to File................ 4 Welfare Benefit Plan – Who
Master Trust Investment
Must File ................................. 3
Account (MTIA).......................... 10
Welfare Benefit Plan Filing
F Requirements ...................... 10
Final Return/Report:
N What To File................................... 7
Mergers/Consolidations .............. 6
Nonexempt Transactions.............. 37 When To File:
Pension and Welfare Plans
Notice to Terminated Accountant DFEs other than GIAs............ 4
Terminated Without
or Enrolled Actuary.................... 30 Extensions ............................. 4
Distributing All Assets ............. 6
Plans and GIAs ...................... 4
Welfare Plans Still Liable to Pay
Short Years............................. 4
Benefits.................................... 6 O
Who Must File ................................ 2
Form 5500 Schedules .................... 8 On-Line Assistance……………….2
Fully Insured Welfare Benefit
Plan.............................................. 3
Funding Information...................... 73
P
Party-In-Interest ........................... 59
Penalties:
G Administrative ............................. 7
General Schedules ......................... 8 Other............................................ 7
Group Insurance Arrangement Pension Benefit Plan - Who
(GIA) .......................................... 12 Must File ..................................... 2
Pension Benefit Plan Filing
Requirements ............................. 9
H
Pension Schedule………….……... 8
How to get assistance .................... 2
Plan Administrator........................17
-99-